Ability Rip
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 5 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You can rob a creature of one of its inherent
aptitudes and give that capability to an ally. Choose
one ability score. One creature of your choice
within range makes a saving throw with that ability
score. On a failure, the target has disadvantage on
checks and saving throws with the chosen ability
score. In addition, the target has disadvantage on
attack rolls using the chosen ability score, and deals
only half damage with such attacks if they are
weapon attacks.
When you cast this spell, choose another willing
creature within 30 feet. For the duration, that
creature gains advantage on all ability checks and
saving throws with the ability score you chose. In
addition, that creature gains 25 temporary hit
points.
At the end of each of the first target’s turns, it can
make a saving throw against the spell. It makes the
saving throw with the ability score you chose, but
the disadvantage inflicted by this spell does not
affect saving throws against it. On a successful save,
the spell ends.
“A poorly named spell. ‘Rip’ implies one
tears it away forever, but in truth, one
only borrows the ability for a brief
while. Pity.”


Armor of Hardness
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch

Page 24
Components: V, S, M (a piece of shattered armor)
Duration: 1 minute
You touch one suit of armor, which hardens with an
extra layer of protection against attacks. The armor
gains temporary hit points equal to 1d4 + your
spellcasting ability modifier. While the armor still
has these temporary hit points, its wearer has
resistance to all damage except psychic damage.
Each time the wearer takes damage that is not
psychic damage, the same amount of damage is
dealt to the armor’s hit points.
The spell ends early if the temporary hit points
are depleted, if the armor is doffed, or if the spell is
cast again on the same suit of armor. You can also
dismiss the spell as an action.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the temporary hit
points increase by 5 for each slot level above 1st.


Banish Darkness
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self (30-foot radius)
Components:  V, S, M (a round black stone)
Duration:  Instantaneous
A burst of energy radiates from you in a 30-foot
radius, dispelling shadowy foes and magical
darkness alike. Creatures of your choice within 30
feet of you must make a Constitution saving throw
or take 4d8 radiant damage. Creatures with
vulnerability to radiant damage have disadvantage
on this saving throw.
If the spell’s area overlaps with an area of
darkness created by another spell, make an ability
check using your spellcasting ability. The DC equals
10 + the other spell level. On a successful check, the
other spell ends. Multiple magical darkness spells
can be abolished in this way.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 4th level or higher, the radiant
damage increases by 1d8 for each slot level above
3rd, and if the spell’s area overlaps with one or more
areas of darkness created by spells of 2nd level or
lower, those spells end immediately. “I have seen more than a few supposedly
veteran adventurers undone by magical
darkness. This be one spell I always like to
have prepared.”


Brain Scry
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S, M (a piece of the brain of a
recently slain creature)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 10 minutes
You touch a corpse that has been dead for less than
1 hour. While you are touching the corpse, you can
attempt to draw out and view a memory that the
corpse may possess. The corpse must have been
alive to create the memory. Make an Intelligence
check and add your proficiency bonus. If the result
is a 20 or above, you can view the memory with
perfect clarity. No one else can see or hear the
memory. For the duration, you can use an action to
repeat the roll, and try and view another memory. If
you fail three consecutive rolls, you fall unconscious
for 1 hour.
“Fair warning. Corpses found in dungeons rarely
die pleasant deaths. Viewing those memories can
be enlightening , but hard to forget.”


Unknown Spell 5
Casting Time:  1 reaction (when a creature within
range is slain)
Range: 30 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  1 round
As a creature’s spirit exits its body, you reach out
and use its essence to make yourself more powerful.
You gain 20 temporary hit points and the next spell
you cast is cast as if it were one spell level higher. If
the spell does not benefit from being cast with a

Page 25
higher spell level, then you only receive the
temporary hit points. You must cast this spell
during your next turn. The temporary hit points last
until you finish your next long rest.


Unknown Spell 6
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self
Components:  V, S
Duration:  1 hour
This spell creates an arcane ward that surrounds
and protects you, harmlessly absorbing the energy
of spells that target you to fuel your own casting.
For the duration, you can use the ward as a reaction
to absorb a spell that is targeting only you and
which does not have an area of effect. The absorbed
spell's effect is canceled, and the spell's energy—not
the spell itself—is stored in the ward.
Once the ward absorbs a spell, you can use the
captured spell energy, which has the same level as
the spell when it was cast. The ward can absorb a
number of spell levels equal to half your level + your
spellcasting ability modifier. Once the ward absorbs
that number of levels of spell energy, it can't absorb
more. If you are targeted by a spell that the ward
can't store, the ward has no effect on that spell. You
always know how much spell energy your ward has
absorbed and how many spell levels are currently
stored within it.
You can convert levels of spell energy stored in
your ward to cast spells you have prepared or know,
creating new spell slots from the stored energy
rather than using slots of your own. You can create
spell slots only of a level equal to or lower than your
own highest-level spell slots, up to a maximum of
5th level. You use the stored levels of spell energy in
place of your own spell slots, but otherwise cast the
spell as normal. For example, you can use 3 levels of
spells stored in the ward as a 3rd-level spell slot.
Any spell levels remaining in the ward when the
spell ends are lost.
“I carried a rod of absorption  for many years, but lost
it recently during an ambush on Avernus. The
ambushers paid the price, but since that time I instead
prepare this spell, which grants what is essentially the
same effect.”


Unknown Spell 7
Casting Time:  10 minutes
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S, M (incense made from rare
herbs worth at least 50 gp, which the spell
consumes)
Duration:  1 hour
When you finish casting this spell, you light the
incense and then touch one target creature to
accelerate the vital energies within it. The target
must begin a short rest within one minute,
otherwise the spell. At the end of the short rest, the
target regains the maximum number of hit points
for each Hit Die spent. In addition, the recipient
can make a saving throw for each poison or disease
affecting it. On a successful save, the target recovers
from that poison or disease.


Unknown Spell 8
Casting Time:  1 bonus action
Range: Self
Components:  S, M (a dead cockroach)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
For the duration, it does not cost you extra
movement to crawl, climb, squeeze, swim, or move
across difficult terrain.


Unknown Spell 9
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 150 feet

Page 26
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Instantaneous
You conjure two watery globes of acid that appear
in the air next to you. Both globes can target a
single creature within range, or you can direct each
to strike a different creature within range. For each
globe you direct towards it, a target must make a
Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, the target
takes 4d10 acid damage, or half as much damage on
a successful one.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 5th level or higher, the acid damage
increases by 1d10 for each slot level above 4th.


Unknown Spell 10
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 30-foot cone
Components:  V, S, M (a handful of ants)
Duration:  Instantaneous
You exhale a 30-foot cone of acid. Each
creature within the cone must make a
Dexterity saving throw. A target takes
8d6 acid damage on a failed save, or half
as much damage on a successful
one.
At Higher Levels.  You
can cast this spell using a
4th level or higher spell
slot. The acid damage
increases by 1d6 for each
slot level above 3rd.


Unknown Spell 11
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 120 feet
Components:  V, S, M
(powdered troll blood)
Duration:  Concentration, up
to 1 minute You choose a 20-foot cube within range and fill it
with dense vapors that dissolve flesh and bone.
Each creature within the cube must make a
Constitution saving throw. A target takes 6d6 acid
damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on
a successful one. Any creature that begins its turn
inside the cube must make a Constitution saving
throw. A creature takes 6d6 acid damage on a failed
save, or half as much on a successful one.
In addition, everything within the fog is heavily
obscured. Because the vapors are semisolid, the area
of the fog is also difficult terrain.


Unknown Spell 12
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 5 feet
Components:  V, M (a slashing weapon)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
As part of the action used to cast this spell, you
must make a melee attack with a weapon against
one creature within the spell's range, otherwise the
spell fails. On a hit, the target suffers the attack's
normal effects and takes an extra 3d6 force damage
from the hit. On a miss, the spell ends.
If the initial attack hits, at the end of each of the
target's turns before the spell ends, the target must
succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or take 5d8 acid
damage. On a successful save, the spell ends.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 6th level or higher, the acid damage
increases by 1d8 for every two slot levels above 5th.
“Watching your hated foe dissolve from
the inside out is most gratifying.”


Unknown Spell 13
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self
Components:  V, S, M (a vial of acid)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute

Page 27
You sheath yourself in acid. You take no damage
and can breathe normally. For the duration, at the
start of each of your turns, if you have a creature
grappled or a creature is grappling you, the creature
you are in a grapple with takes 6d6 acid damage.
In addition, until the spell ends, when creature
damages you with a melee attack, it must make a
Dexterity saving throw. It takes 4d6 acid damage on
a failure, or no damage on a success.


Unknown Spell 14
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 150 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a flask of acid)
Duration:  Instantaneous
A cloud of swirling acid rain engulfs the area in a
20-foot radius by 20-foot high cylinder. Each
creature within the cylinder must make a Dexterity
saving throw. A target takes 10d8 acid damage on a
failed save, or half as much damage on a successful
one.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 7th level or higher, the amount of acid
damage increases by 1d8 for each slot level above
6th.
“This spell is highly effective against a
tightly clustered group of enemies. It is
not, however, for the weak of stomach.”


Unknown Spell 15
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You conjure a layer of translucent green energy
resembling plate armor, which emits noxious fumes
and corrodes attacking enemies. Choose an ally you
can see within range. That ally gains resistance
against acid damage, and until the spell ends, any creature that touches that ally or hits it with a
melee attack while within 5 feet of it takes 1d10 acid
damage.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 7th level or higher, the acid damage
increases by 1d10 for each slot level above 5th.


Unknown Spell 16
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: Self
Components: V, M (licorice root shaving)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You enter a state of pure action, untempered by
thought, relying on reflex alone. Until the spell
ends, you can gain the following benefits:
 You can take the Dash, Disengage, or Use an
Object action as a bonus action
 You gain a +2 bonus to AC
 Whenever you make an attack roll or saving
throw before the spell ends, you can roll a d4
and add the number rolled to the attack roll or
saving throw. When the spell ends, you can't
move or take actions until the end of your next
turn.


Unknown Spell 17
Casting Time: 1 reaction, which you take when you
would fail a Wisdom or Intelligence saving throw
Range: Self
Components: V
Duration: 1 round
You enter a state of complete instinct, temporarily
making your thoughts a blank and protecting
yourself against attempts to invade or control your
mind. You can reroll the failed saving throw that
triggered this spell, but must use the new roll, even
if it is lower. In addition, until the end of your next
turn, you have resistance against psychic damage.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a 3rd level spell slot, you cannot be charmed or

Page 28
frightened until the end of your next turn. If you are
already charmed or frightened, then the condition
is suppressed until the end of your next turn. While
the condition is suppressed it doesn’t function but
the time spent suppressed counts against its
duration.


Unknown Spell 18
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S M (a nonmagical weapon made
of metal)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 10 minutes
Your weapon becomes adamantine, almost
indestructible and capable of cutting steel. You have
a +1 bonus to hit and damage rolls and the weapon
deals double damage against structures and objects.
The weapon counts as adamantine and magical, and
its hit points are also doubled for the duration.


Unknown Spell 19
Casting Time: 1 reaction, which you take when a
creature within range succeeds on a melee attack
roll that would hit one of your allies
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, M (a weapon)
Duration: 1 round
With a flash of light, you bring instant vengeance to
the attacking enemy. As part of the reaction used to
cast this spell, you choose to do either one or both
of the following:
 Teleport to an unoccupied space, as long as that
space is not farther away than you are now from
the creature that made the triggering attack.
 Make one melee weapon attack against the
attacker if it is within reach. You can use your
spellcasting ability instead of Strength for the
attack and damage rolls of this attack if you
choose. If that attack hits, it deals an extra 1d4
radiant damage. If you are unable to do either one, the spell ends.
Otherwise, after the triggering attack is resolved,
you mark the creature who made that attack until
the end of your next turn. While it is within 5 feet of
you, a creature marked by you has disadvantage on
any attack roll that doesn't target you. This spell
ends early if you are incapacitated or you die, or if
someone else marks the creature.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 4th level or higher, the range increases
to 60 feet, and the extra radiant damage inflicted
with the melee weapon attack increases by 1d4 for
each slot level above 3rd.


Unknown Spell 20
Casting Time: 1 reaction, which you take when a
creature within range succeeds on a melee attack
roll that would hit one of your allies
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, M (a weapon)
Duration: 1 round
Your magic ensnares an attacking enemy, moving it
so its attack targets you instead of your ally. The
creature that made the triggering attack roll must
roll a Charisma saving throw, which happens before
the attack’s damage is resolved. On a failed save,
you teleport it to an unoccupied space within 5 feet
of you. It then makes the triggering attack against
you instead, comparing the same attack roll to your
Armor Class to determine whether it hits or misses
you.
Whether the saving throw succeeds or fails, after
the triggering attack is resolved, the attacking
creature takes 1d4 psychic damage and you mark it
until the end of your next turn. While it is within 5
feet of you, a creature marked by you has
disadvantage on any attack roll that doesn't target
you. This spell ends early if you are incapacitated or
you die, or if someone else marks the creature.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 4th level or higher, the range increases
to 60 feet, and the psychic damage increases by 1d4
for each slot level above 3rd.

Page 29


Unknown Spell 21
Casting Time: 1 reaction, which you take when a
creature within range succeeds on a melee attack
roll that would hit one of your allies
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, M (a weapon)
Duration: Instantaneous
You protect your ally with a barrier of invisible
force. Until the end of the turn, the target of the
triggering attack gains resistance to bludgeoning,
piercing, and slashing damage and a +5 bonus to
AC, including against the triggering attack.
After the triggering attack is resolved (whether it
hits or misses), the creature that made the attack
takes 1d4 force damage and and you mark it until
the end of your next turn. While it is within 5 feet of
you, a creature marked by you has disadvantage on
any attack roll that doesn't target you. This spell
ends early if you are incapacitated or you die, or if
someone else marks the creature.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 4th level or higher, the range increases
to 60 feet, and the force damage increases by 1d4 for
each slot level above 3rd.
“The aegis spells were first researched and
perfected by swordmages, warriors combining
spellcasting and prowess with a blade.
Swordmages were never common, but their
numbers grew after the elves reclaimed ruined
Myth Drannor for a time and began teaching the
swordmage’s art there. However, since that
returned center of elvendom was again laid low
by the fall of the City of Shade, few new
swordmages have been trained.
“Of course, eldritch knights and elven
bladesingers aren’t too common either, but now
it is their use of swordmage techniques in their
own fighting arts that keeps this unique practice
of magic from falling back into obscurity.”


Unknown Spell 22
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 50 feet
Components:  V, S, M (mummified skin of a
beholder)
Duration:  Instantaneous
You choose one creature within range and force it
to make a Wisdom saving throw. If the creature
passes, the spell has no effect, if the creature fails it
takes all the damage it has suffered since your
previous turn. This damage is psychic damage.
For example, a giant has taken 30 points of cold
damage, 8 points of slashing damage, and 12 points
of piercing damage since your last turn. If the giant
fails its Wisdom saving throw against this spell, it
would immediately take 50 points of psychic
damage.


Unknown Spell 23
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: Self
Components: S
Duration: Instantaneous
As part of the action of casting this spell, you take
the Dodge action.
“This spell briefly grants the defensive instincts of
trained monks—but not, alas, any of their offensive
capabilities.”


Unknown Spell 24
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self
Components:  V, S, M (a fan)
Duration:  1 round
You gain the ability to walk on air. You gain a flying
speed equal to your walking speed until the end of

Page 30
your next turn, at which point the spell ends, and if
you are still aloft, you fall unless you can stop the
fall.


Unknown Spell 25
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 90 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a shard of glass)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You must cast this spell during the day. You create a
lens in the air above you that concentrates the rays
of the sun into a fiery beam. For the duration if the
spell, you can use a bonus action to direct the beam
at one target within range. Your must make a
Dexterity save, and takes 3d10 fire damage and is
blinded for 1 minute on a failed save. The target
takes half damage and is not blinded with a
successful save. A blinded target can repeat the
Dexterity save at the end of each of its turns, ending
the effect on a success.


Unknown Spell 26
Casting Time:  1 minute
Range: 10-mile radius
Components:  V, S, M (a looking glass)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
This spell shows you shadowy images of any
adventurers that are currently taking a short or long
rest. At the beginning of your turn you will see one
resting adventurer within range. You have no
control over which adventurer you are shown. You
can see a 60-foot radius around the adventurer
within the limitations of your own vision, but the
spell does not tell you their exact location. You can
communicate telepathically with the resting
adventurer, but you can send no more than 25
words. This spell is notoriously fickle, 30% of the time it
shows the caster random images from other planes.


Unknown Spell 27
Casting Time:  1 reaction (when you are targeted by
a spell of 8th-level or lower, or included in such a
spell’s area of effect)
Range: varies
Components:  V, S, M (a silver mirror worth at least
1,000 gp)
Duration:  Instantaneous
You can duplicate the spell of another spellcaster
that targets you or includes you in its area of effect.
The spell must be 8th level or lower and have a
casting time of 1 action. As part of casting this spell,
you immediately cast the triggering spell as well,
changing the casting time to 1 reaction for this
casting. The spell is cast using the same level of
spell slot as the triggering casting, and any
metamagic options applied to it are applied tyo your
casting as well. The new spell originates from you,
just as if you had cast it normally, and any required
rolls (spell attacks, damage, saving throws, etc.)


Unknown Spell 28
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 120 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a lock of unicorn mane)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
A transparent alicorn (unicorn horn) forms about 2
inches from your brow. Starting the turn you cast
this spell, for the duration you can use a bonus
action during each of your turns to launch the horn
at a creature you can see within range. The target
must make a Dexterity saving throw, taking 3d6
radiant damage on a failed save. It is also outlined
in silver faerie fire on a failed save, causing any
attacks against it to be made with advantage until
the start of your next turn. On a successful save the
target takes half as much radiant damage, but

Page 31
suffers no other effects. Once the alicorn is
launched, the spell ends.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, the amount of
radiant damage increases by 1d6 for each slot level
above 2nd.


Unknown Spell 29
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self
Components:  V, S
Duration:  1 round
You garble your own thought processes into
maddening chaos, then force those thoughts onto
everyone around you. Each living creature (not a
construct or undead) within a 15-foot sphere
originating from you must make an Intelligence
saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 2d10
psychic damage, and until the end of your next turn
it forgets any languages that it knows and is
incapable of meaningful communication. On a
successful save, the creature takes half as much
damage but suffers no other effects.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the damage
increases by 1d10 for each slot level above 1st.


Unknown Spell 30
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S, M (one weapon or fifty
projectiles)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You infuse a weapon you touch with the energies of
one of the Outer Planes, energies which correspond
strongly to certain ethical or moral alignments and
inflict extra damage against certain types of
creatures. When you cast this spell, choose one of
these four planes:
 Elysium (Good):  Aberrations, chromatic
dragons, elementals, fiends, or undead.  Hades (Evil):  Beasts, celestials, metallic
dragons, humanoids, or plants.
 Limbo (Chaos):  Constructs, angels, dragons,
devils, or giants.
 Mechanus (Law):  Aberrations, demons, fey,
monstrosities, oozes, or undead.
Until the spell ends, the weapon inflicts an
additional 2d6 force damage against the types of
creatures listed for the chosen plane.
Your alignment may limit your choice of planar
energies when you cast this spell. If you are evil-
aligned, you cannot choose Elysium; if you are
good-aligned, you cannot choose Hades, if you are
lawful in alignment, you cannot choose Limbo; if
your alignment is chaotic, you cannot choose
Mechanus.


Unknown Spell 31
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 50 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a piece of parchment)
Duration:  1 hour
Choose a willing target within range. For the
duration, you and the target each know your exact
direction and distance from each other. The spell
will continue to function if you or your target dies.
If you or the target travels to a different plane or
enters an area where magic does not function (such
as an antimagic field ), the spell is temporarily
interrupted.


Unknown Spell 32
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: Self
Components: V
Duration: Instantaneous
You alter the flow of time around you, granting
yourself and an ally a crucial moment to reposition
yourselves. As part of the bonus action used to cast
this spell, you can immediately take the Dash
action. This movement does not provoke

Page 32
opportunity attacks. If you move at least 10 feet, any
ally within 5 feet of you when you end your
movement can immediately use its reaction to move
up to its speed.


Unknown Spell 33
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: Self
Components: V
Duration: 1 round
With a sickening sound as your bones stretch
beneath your skin, one of your arms extends,
becomes unnaturally long and wiry. Until the end of
your next turn, your reach with all melee attacks
increases by 5 feet, and you have advantage on all
rolls to make or escape a grapple.
Before the spell ends, you can give yourself
advantage on one melee weapon attack roll. On
a hit, that attack deals an extra 5d4 damage of
the same type as the attack.
For the spell's duration, you also suffer
disadvantage on Charisma (Persuasion)
checks.


Unknown Spell 34
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S
Duration:  1 round
You touch an ally, and for an instant reality
alters itself to suit their desires. Until the end of
your next turn, one creature you touch can
choose to reroll one attack roll, one saving
throw, and one skill check. Whenever the
target uses the effects of this spell to reroll, it
must use the second roll even if it is worse.
Any rerolls not used before the start of your
next turn are lost.


Unknown Spell 35
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Instantaneous
If you have at least 2 hit points when you cast this
spell, you can transfer any number of your own hit
points to a willing creature you touch. Each hit
point you transfer deals one damage to you and
heals your target for one hit point. You cannot give
the target more hit points than their normal
maximum, nor can you transfer any number of hit
points from yourself that would reduce you to less
than 1 hit point. You can heal the transferred hit
points as if you had taken damage.
This spell has no effect on
constructs or undead.

Page 33


Unknown Spell 36
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components:  V, S, M (any kind of blank paper)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 10 minutes
You choose any nonmagical writing you can see
within range and it is magically copied onto blank
paper you are holding. This spell copies 250 words
per minute and creates a perfect duplicate of the
original. It does not translate the text or make it
clearer.
Illustrations or magical writings (such as the text
of a spellbook, a spell scroll, or a glyph of warding)
are not copied at all by this spell. If the original text
contains both normal writing and magical writing
or illustrations (such as a letter with a glyph of
warding or a drawing in one corner), only the
normal text is copied.
You must provide blank paper in some form for
the spell to copy the text onto. If a blank sheet is
filled with copied text, you must cast the spell again
with a new blank sheet of paper to continue copying
more text.


Unknown Spell 37
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 90 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a glass orb filled with the
blood of a black dragon and squid ink, which is
consumed by the spell)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 hour
You shake the glass orb as the noxious mixture
inside starts to bubble and smoke. You hurl the orb
at a point you can see within range. When the orb
reaches that point it shatters, releasing a sickening
form of ooze, a black pudding  (your DM has
statistics for this creature). The black pudding turns
into a disgusting puddle of sticky tar when it’s
reduced to 0 hit points or the spell ends.
The ooze is friendly to you. Roll initiative for the
ooze, which has its own turns. The pudding follows your verbal commands (this does not require an
action) to the best of its ability. If you don’t give the
pudding any commands it will move up to 20 feet
towards the nearest creature that isn’t you and
attack.


Unknown Spell 38
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 300 feet
Components:  S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 10 minutes
This spell greatly increases the volume of all sound
in a 15-foot radius sphere centered on a creature or
object of your choice within range. If an unwilling
creature is targeted by this spell, it must make a
Wisdom saving throw; on a failed save, the spell
successfully targets the creature. If the save is
successful, the spell fails.
Once the spell takes effect, a creature outside of
the spell’s area listening to sounds coming from
within the area has advantage on Wisdom
(Perception) checks to discern sounds within the
area. This amplifying effect isn’t noticeable by
creatures within the affected area. The spell has no
effect when targeting a creature or object in an area
affected by the  silence spell or another effect that
quiets all sound.


Unknown Spell 39
Casting Time:  1 minute
Range: 10 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 10 minutes
For the duration, you gain advantage on
Intelligence (Investigation) checks to figure out how
a device, trap, or mechanism works. If you are
successful on your Investigation check when
analyzing one of these devices, you gain advantage
on any ability checks used to disarm or operate the
object’s mechanisms for the duration.

Page 34


Unknown Spell 40
Casting Time:  1 minute
Range: Self (30-foot radius)
Components:  V, S, M (a tiny lens of ruby or
sapphire set in a golden hoop worth at least 1000
gp)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 10 minutes
Upon casting this spell, you can identify the magic
affecting all creatures and objects within range. For
magic items or other magic-imbued objects, you
learn their properties and how to use them, whether
they require attunement to use, and how many
charges they have (if any). You also learn whether
any spells are affecting the item and what they are.
If the item was created by a spell, you learn which
spell created it.
For creatures within range, you learn what spells,
if any, are currently affecting them.


Unknown Spell 41
Casting Time:  1 action
Components:  V, S, M (a tuning fork)
Range: 60 feet
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You can see the outline of any magic portal within
range. If you study a portal for 1 round, you can
learn one of the following things:
 Any special key or command word required to
activate the portal
 Any specific circumstance to activate the portal
(a time of day for instance)
 Whether the portal is one-way or two-way
 Whether the portal is functioning correctly or
not
 A glimpse of where the portal leads. The
glimpse lasts for 1 second, and you can see about
20 feet beyond the portal
For every round you focus on the portal, you
learn one more of the listed pieces of information.


Unknown Spell 42
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Special
Components:  V, S, M (a special consecrated book
or scroll inscribed with the target’s name, detailing
the crimes for which the target is being condemned
and requiring 10,000 gp worth of special metallic
inks and rare mineral dusts to inscribe, which is
consumed in the casting of the spell)
Duration:  Instantaneous
You can permanently exclude a creature from the
benefits of your faith. The chosen creature suffers
the following effects:
 It can no longer cast any cleric, druid, paladin,
or ranger spells gained from the worship of your
deity.
 It can no longer use the Channel Divinity
feature if it is derived from the worship of your
deity.
 It cannot benefit from any of your faith’s
services, such as spellcasting provided by a
temple of your faith, or naming, marrying, or
burial services.
 If it dies, its soul is barred from entry into your
deity’s plane, just as if it had never declared
allegiance to your deity.
If you target a higher-level spellcaster than yourself
with this spell, the spell fails. A creature targeted
with this spell is instantly aware of all of its effects,
and that you are the caster. You can pronounce an
anathema effect upon any creature, even if it is on a
different plane. You cannot pronounce an anathema
against someone who is already dead. Some deities
do not allow an anathema to be pronounced against
the innocent or against their chosen, while others
grant their most powerful servants free use of this
most terrible of divine curses.
The anathema  spell marks the subject as accursed
to others of your faith. If they are aware that a
creature is anathema, members of your faith feel
instinctively that they will displease their deity if

Page 35
they speak to that creature, look at it, or even
acknowledge its existence. Clerics, paladins, druids,
and rangers of your faith automatically detect an
anathema effect simply by looking at the subject.
The effect is permanent until lifted, either by you
or another member of your faith of higher level who
can cast this spell. This spell is unaffected by dispel
magic or counterspell , and it can be neither copied
nor undone by a wish spell.
In campaigns featuring less traditional faiths
(such as worship of whole pantheons or sub-groups
of gods, gods with multiple aspects, a non-personal
sacred philosophy, etc.), the DM determines the
effects of this spell relative to such beliefs and
explains them when you acquire this spell.
Changing Deities


Unknown Spell 43
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a sprig of nightshade)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You fix your magically empowered gaze upon one
creature you can see within range, forcing it to
make a Wisdom saving throw. If it succeeds, the
spell has no effect. On a failure, it gains resistance
to all nonmagical bludgeoning, piercing and
slashing damage until the spell ends. However, for
the same duration, its movement rate is reduced by
half, it has disadvantage on all Dexterity saves for
the duration, and it can’t use reactions or bonus
actions until the spell ends. During the target’s turn
it can only take one action, and it cannot move
unless that action is one that includes movement
(such as the Dash action). Also, the target cannot
cast spells for the duration. A creature affected by
this spell can repeat the Wisdom saving throw at
the end of each of its turns, ending the spell on a
success.
“Hearty minions of dubious intellect can
often benefit from this spell if their
enemies are close at hand.”


Unknown Spell 44
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self (20-foot radius)
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Instantaneous.
A blast of brilliant energy bursts outward in a 20-
foot radius around you and each creature caught in
the blast must make a Constitution saving throw.
On a failed save, the creature takes 8d8 radiant
damage and is blinded for one minute. On a
successful save, the amount of damage is halved and

Page 36
the creature is not blinded. Undead creatures have
disadvantage on this saving throw.
A creature blinded by this spell can try another
saving throw at the end of each of its turns. If the
save is successful, the blinded condition ends.
This spell cancels any magical darkness it touches
if the darkness was created by a spell of equal level
or lower.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 7th level or higher, the amount of
radiant damage increases by 1d8 for each slot level
above 6th.


Unknown Spell 45
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 50 feet
Components:  V,S, M (a needle)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You tear the muscles of a target in range, making
attacking painful. Choose a target within range,
which must make a Constitution saving throw. If it
fails, it takes a penalty equal to your spellcasting
ability modifier on attack rolls for the duration.
They can repeat the Constitution saving throw at
the end of each of their turns to end the spell.


Unknown Spell 46
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 hour
You can borrow some of the senses of a beast you
touch. During each of your turns you can use a
bonus action to see what the beast sees and hear
what it hears until the start of your next turn,
gaining the benefits of any special senses that beast
may possess. During this time, you are deaf and
blind with regard to your own senses. If the beast
moves more than 1 mile away from you, the spell
ends.
This spell can only affect beasts with an Intelligence score of 3 or less. You don’t gain any
control over the beast or communication with it
other than seeing and hearing through its senses.
If you cast this spell on a beast that is tied to
another intelligent creature by a class feature or
spell (such as a wizard’s familiar or a ranger’s
animal companion), then that intelligent creature
can make a Wisdom saving throw when you cast
this spell. On a successful save, the spell fails.
Whether you succeed or fail, the intelligent creature
tied to the beast gains no special awareness of this
spell or its effects.


Unknown Spell 47
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self
Components:  V, S, M (a drop of blood)
Duration:  1 hour
You deal yourself 1 slashing or piercing damage to
yourself to shed some blood, which you animate
into a tiny humanlike construct called a bloodling.
Bloodlings look like tiny humanoids made out of
dark red wax. Bloodlings are tiny, they have a speed
of 40 feet, an AC 18, 5 hp, and darkvision out to 60
feet. They are ineffective in combat but have +10 to
Dexterity (stealth) checks. They are too weak to
carry anything that weighs more than 5 pounds.
As long as the bloodling is within 120 feet you can
use an action to look through the bloodling’s eyes
and give it telepathic commands. You can specify a
general action such as “climb that” or “open that
book,” or you can take complete control of the
bloodling. The bloodling will take whatever actions
you command it to and nothing else.
When you cast a spell with a range of touch, the
bloodling can deliver the spell as if it had been the
caster. The bloodling must be within 120 feet of you,
and it must use its reaction to deliver the spell when
you cast it. If the spell requires an attack roll, you
use your attack modifier for the roll. Whether or
not the spell is successful, when you have a
bloodling deliver a spell in this way, your animate
blood spell ends and the bloodling is destroyed.

Page 37


Unknown Spell 48
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self (30-foot radius)
Components:  V, S, M (the tongues of 5 dead men)
Duration: 1 hour
You send gathered necrotic energy cascading into
the ground around you, and seconds later corpses
within the area start to twitch and drag themselves
to their feet. You choose a number of corpses within
range equal to your spellcasting ability modifier and
animate them, as if with the animate dead  spell.
Treat these animated corpses as zombies , with
the following exceptions. The zombies follow your
commands to the best of their ability but are not
intelligent and take things very literally. Each
zombie’s initiative is the same as yours, but its turn
does not take place until yours ends. If you do not
issue a new command to the zombie, it will continue to follow any previous orders if possible,
otherwise it takes the dodge action. Undead
animated by this spell cannot be turned. When
reduced to 0 hit points or after the spell ends, each
zombie turns back into a lifeless corpse.


Unknown Spell 49
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self (10-foot radius)
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 hour
This spell creates a comfortably warm 10-foot radius
sphere centered on the spellcaster. Friendly
creatures within the sphere are immune to cold
damage. In addition, creatures made of ice or cold
can’t enter the spell’s area; if such a creature is
within the sphere when the spell is cast, it is pushed
to the nearest unoccupied space outside the sphere.

Page 38


Unknown Spell 50
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a pinch of iron filings mixed
with ruby dust worth at least 100 gp)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
An invisible ray shoots from your hand toward a
target within range. Make a ranged spell attack. On
a hit, the target can’t cast spells, nor can it be
targeted by other spells for the duration. Any spell
affecting the target is suppressed for the duration,
though it is not dispelled, and resumes when the
antimagic ray spell expires.
If a magic item is targeted by the ray, its magical
properties are suppressed for the duration.


Unknown Spell 51
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Instantaneous
This spell grants you the ability to cast any one spell
of your choice from the wizard spell list, provided it
is a 1st, 2nd, 3rd, or 4th level spell. As part of the
action used to cast this spell, you must read the
spell you intend to cast directly from a scroll or a
wizard’s spellbook, or the spell fails (reading from a
spell scroll in this way does not use the spell scroll).
Once you cast anyspell, the spell you chose and
read can be cast any time until the end of your next
turn, using the required casting time and
components. (Therefore, spells that take longer
than 1 round to cast are usually not suitable choices
this spell.) To cast the chosen spell, you must still
expend a spell slot of the appropriate level.


Unknown Spell 52
Casting Time:  1 hour
Range: Self (1 mile) Components:  V, S, M (an artifact once aligned to
good that the caster has personally corrupted to
evil, which the spell consumes)
Duration:  Instantaneous
You channel the essence of Tharizdun, god of
entropy, through yourself into the sky. Every
creature within range must make a Dexterity saving
throw. They take 10d6 acid, fire, or poison damage
(caster’s choice) on a failed saving throw and half as
much on a successful one. This spell fouls rivers,
destroys forests and devastates towns and castles.
Thousands of innocent lives could be lost.
Casting this spell is an unquestionably evil act.
Other gods take notice, and often warn their
followers or send servants to deal with you directly.
Channeling the essence of entropy takes a direct toll
on the caster as well: when you cast this spell, you
take 10d6 necrotic damage, and must roll 1d6 and
permanently decrease your Constitution by the
number rolled. This damage cannot reduced or
resisted in any way.


Unknown Spell 53
Casting Time:  1 action
Components:  V, S
Range: Touch
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 hour
For the duration of the spell, you have advantage on
Intelligence checks to determine the value of an
item. You can appraise multiple items, but you must
handle each item for at least 1 minute.


Unknown Spell 54
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components:  V, S, M (two small iron rods)
Duration:  Instantaneous
Select two creatures that you can see within range
that are within 30 feet of each other. A bolt of
lightning jumps from one creature to the other,
creating a line 5 feet wide and up to 30 feet long.

Page 39
Each creature in that line must make a Dexterity
saving throw. They take 10d6 lightning damage on a
failed save, or half as much damage on a successful
one
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 6th level or higher, the lightning
damage increases by 1d6 for each slot level above
5th.


Unknown Spell 55
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 10 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a tail feather from a bird of
prey)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 10 minutes
You sing a lively and spirited magical song that
grants astonishing speed to you and your
companions. Choose up to six creatures that you
can see within range. For the duration, you and
each creature chosen can take the Dash action as a
bonus action.


Unknown Spell 56
Casting Time: 1 reaction, which you take when you
take acid, cold, fire, lightning, necrotic, poison,
psychic, radiant, or thunder damage from a spell
Range: 5 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: 1 round
When an enemy tries to harm you with a spell, you
weave a quick defensive spell of your own that
mitigates some of its destructive energy. Choose
one type of damage the spell would inflict on you.
You and every creature of your choice within 5 feet
of you gain resistance to the triggering damage type
(including against damage from the triggering spell)
until the end of your next turn.
Divination cantrip


Unknown Spell 57
Casting Time:  1 action Range: Touch
Components:  S
Duration:  Instantaneous
With a touch you learn if your opponent can cast
spell. Make a melee touch attack. If you hit you
learn if your opponent can cast arcane or divine
spell, and the maximum spell level it can cast.


Unknown Spell 58
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S, M (a small square of specially
prepared cloth)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You infuse a section of the ground with arcane
energy, creating a bouncy surface that launches any
who step on it in the desired direction. Choose a 5-
foot cube within range. Until the spell ends, any
creature who sets foot on a surface within that area
can immediately use its reaction to make a Strength
(Athletics) check to jump. The creature’s jump
distance for that check is multiplied by 5. If a
creature makes this jump during its turn, it can
choose to do so a bonus action instead of using its
reaction.


Unknown Spell 59
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self
Components:  V, S
Duration:  8 hours
Both of your hands transform into adamantine
hammers. These hammers are considered light for
two weapon fighting and magical for the purposes
of overcoming resistance and immunity to
nonmagical attacks. These hammers deal magical
bludgeoning damage equal to 1d8 plus your
spellcasting ability modifier. These hammers do
double damage to objects and structures. You can
use a bonus action to dismiss the spell at any time
during the spell’s duration.

Page 40


Unknown Spell 60
Casting Time:  1 bonus action
Range: Self
Components:  V
Duration:  Instantaneous
Sped through time by arcane energies, you teleport
up to 15 feet to an unoccupied space that you can
see. If the space you teleport into is within 5 feet of
a creature, you have advantage on the first melee
attack you make against that creature before the
end of the turn.
“The armathors were elite elven guards who
protected the coronal, ruler of the lost city of
Myth Drannor. Most of these formidable
swordmages were eladrin, masters of the misty
step spell, and they developed this more
aggressive variant to aid in the performance of
their duties.”


Unknown Spell 61
Casting Time:  1 bonus action
Components:  V, S, m (a flint arrowhead)
Range: Self
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
For the duration, being within 5 feet of a hostile
creature doesn’t impose disadvantage on your
ranged attack rolls, and when a hostile creature
provokes an opportunity attack from you, you can
use your reaction to make a ranged weapon attack
against the creature, rather than making an
opportunity attack.


Unknown Spell 62
Casting Time:  10 minutes
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S, M (a tiny sliver of bone and a
drop of magic oil) Duration:  1 hour
You touch one nonmagical thrown weapon and
transform it into an identical item made of bone.
The affected weapon is considered magical.
A creature struck by the weapon takes the
weapon’s normal damage and must also make a
Constitution saving throw. The target takes 10d10
necrotic damage on a failed save, or half as much
damage on a successful one. Once the weapon is
thrown, its magic fades, whether the attack hits or
misses.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 8th level or higher, the necrotic
damage increases by 1d10 for each slot level above
7th.


Unknown Spell 63
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Instantaneous
You can use your longbow or shortbow to make a
ranged attack against a horde of enemies. As part of
the action of casting this spell, choose one target
within the weapons range. You make a ranged
attack against that target and every target within 10
feet of them. Make one ranged attack and compare
the result to the AC of every target within range.
Struck targets take normal damage.


Unknown Spell 64
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 120 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a bone of a long dead
mammal)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
Choose one humanoid creature within range. If the
target is willing, the spell immediately takes effect.
If the target resists, it must make an Intelligence

Page 41
saving throw, and the spell only takes effect if it
fails.
Until the spell ends, the target undergoes the
following changes:
 Its Strength is increased to 20;
 Is Intelligence and Wisdom are reduced to 5;
 It has disadvantage on Charisma (Performance
or Persuasion) checks;
 Its nails become thick claws, allowing it to deal
1d8 slashing damage with unarmed strikes
instead of the normal damage;
 The target must drop any melee or ranged
weapon in favor of its new claws;
 It gains +10 to its speed
 The target’s posture becomes noticeably
hunched, and its hair becomes thick and coarse.


Unknown Spell 65
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 90 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You summon a bilious green star that hovers over
an enemy. That enemy must make a Wisdom saving
throw. If they fail any wounds taken while the star
is over them deals plus 1d8 necrotic damage. This
extra necrotic damage cannot be healed until the
enemy has completed a long rest, after which they
can heal normally. You may use a bonus action to
move the star over another enemy within 30 feet.


Unknown Spell 66
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self
Components:  V, S, M (a
wolf’s whisker)
Duration:  1 hour
You transform into a wolf.
The spell lasts for the
duration, or until you choose
to end it, or until your wolf
form drops to 0 hit points.
While you are transformed,
the following rules apply:
 Your game statistics are
replaced by the statistics of a
wolf, but you retain your
alignment, personality, and
Intelligence, Wisdom, and
Charisma scores. You also
retain all of your skill and
saving throw proficiencies, in
addition to gaining those of a
wolf.
 When you transform, you
assume the wolf’s hit points
and Hit Dice. When you

Page 42
revert to your normal form, you return to the
number of hit points you had before you
transformed. However, if you revert as a result
of dropping to 0 hit points, any excess damage
carries over to your normal form.
 You can’t cast spells, and your ability to speak or
take any action that requires hands is limited to
the capabilities of a wolf. Transforming doesn’t
break your concentration on a spell you’ve
already cast, however, or prevent you from
taking actions that are part of a spell, such as
call lightning, that you’ve already cast.
 You retain the benefit of any features from your
class, race, or other source and can use them if
the wolf form is physically capable of doing so.
 You choose whether your equipment falls to the
ground in your space, merges into your wolf
form, or is worn by it. Your equipment doesn’t
change size or shape to match the wolf form,
and any equipment that the new form can’t
wear must either fall to the ground or merge
with it. You can’t activate, wield, or otherwise
benefit from any of your equipment that merges
with your wolf form until you leave wolf form.


Unknown Spell 67
Casting Time:  1 hour
Range: Self
Components:  V, S, M (a dagger and a ruby worth
at least 25,000 gp, which the spell consumes, also
see below)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 hour
As part of the action of casting this spell you must
stab an unconscious celestial with the dagger. The
celestial must be one you have hunted and defeated
through combat, and it must have been reduced to
10 hit points or fewer. It cannot be one you have
summoned through magic. The celestial must have
a CR equal to half your level or greater.
The celestial is immediately slain and you gain
+4, to a maximum of 22, to one ability score for the
duration. The evil of this spell sticks to you like a miasma, residents of the Upper Planes and their
servants will find you uncomfortable at best and
react violently at worst.
At Higher Levels.  You can cast this spell using a
spell slot of 6th level or higher. The duration
increases by 1 hour for each slot level above 5th.


Unknown Spell 68
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 10 feet
Components: V, S, M (a silver mirror)
Duration: Instantaneous
A flash of silver light streaks toward a creature of
your choice you can see within range. Make a
ranged spell attack against the target. On a hit, the
target suffers 1d6 radiant damage, and you outline
your enemy with the silver glow of the Astral Plane,
exuding an energizing light that may aid an ally.
The next time an ally hits the target with an attack
roll before the end of your next turn, that ally gains
temporary hit points equal to half the radiant
damage this spell inflicted. Creatures with 0 hit
points and inanimate objects do not grant
temporary hit points from this spell when they are
struck.
At Higher Levels.  This spell's radiant damage
increases when you reach higher levels, becoming
2d6 at 5th level, 3d6 at 11th level, and 4d6 at 17th
level.


Unknown Spell 69
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: 30 feet
Components:  V, M (a patch of cloth from your
own clothing)
Duration:  1 round
You cover nearby allies in arcane cloaks attuned to
your spells, protecting them from your magic.
Choose up to three creatures within range. Until the
end of your next turn, those creatures take no
damage from spells you cast.

Page 43
At Higher Levels.  You can cast this spell using a
spell slot of 3rd level or higher. You can protect one
additional creature for every slot level above 2nd.


Unknown Spell 70
Casting Time:  1 bonus action
Range: Self (15-foot radius)
Components:  V
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
This spell creates an aura centered on you that
bathes all friendly creatures within a 15-foot radius
in a warm and comforting light. Each affected
creature has advantage on saving throws against
being frightened for the duration. The aura moves
with you.
At Higher Levels.  You can cast this spell using a
spell slot of 3rd level or higher. The radius increases
by 10 feet for every slot level above 2nd.


Unknown Spell 71
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self (30-foot radius)
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
An aura of fear emanates from you in a 30-foot
radius and moves with you for the spell’s duration.
Each creature that enters the aura for the first time,
or starts its turn there, must succeed on a Wisdom
saving throw or become frightened for the duration.
A creature frightened by this spell can try another
saving throw if it ends its turn where it can no
longer see you. On a successful save, the creature is
no longer frightened.


Unknown Spell 72
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 90 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute You fire a blood red ray from your hand at a
creature that you can see within range, causing
blood to violently erupt from its pores, nose, mouth
and eyes. The target must make Constitution save.
On a failure, its hit points are reduced to half their
current total and it is poisoned until the start of
your next turn.
If the initial target fails the Constitution save,
blood and other bodily fluids ejected from the body
form thick sticky tendrils of decomposing tissue.
Anyone within 20 feet of the target must make a
Strength saving throw or be restrained for the
duration of the spell. The initial target is
automatically restrained. A creature restrained by
the spell can make a Strength save at the end of
each of its turns, escaping on a success. This spell
has not effect on undead or constructs.


Unknown Spell 73
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 90 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  1 round
You fire a blood red ray from your hand that strikes
a target that you can see within range. The target
begins to violently erupt blood from its pores, nose,
mouth and eyes. The creature must make
Constitution save. If they fail, their hit points are
reduced to half their current total and they are
poisoned until the start of your next turn. This spell
has no effect on undead and constructs.


Unknown Spell 74
Casting Time:  8 hours
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S, M (the brain of a humanoid
that has been dead less than 24 hours, treated with
10,000 gp worth of alchemical reagents, with the
brain being consumed by the spell)
Duration:  Instantaneous

Page 44
You summon writhing tendrils of life-giving
electricity that cover the brain in your hand, before
dispersing the light into a nearby construct and
bestowing intelligence upon it.
After spending 8 hours treating the brain, touch a
Large or smaller construct. The construct is
awakened and gains Intelligence, Wisdom, and
Charisma scores of 2d6 + 6 each.
The awakened construct is charmed by you and
friendly to you and your companions, but is not
under your control unless you control it by other
means. It remains charmed by you for 30 days or
until you or your companions do anything harmful
to it. When the charmed condition ends, the
awakened construct chooses whether it will remain
friendly to you, based on how you treated it while it
was charmed.
“Few spells ever inspire anything in me that
would be akin to fear. Yet awaken construct  is
one of these, for a simple reason: I cannot
determine the source of the intelligence that
takes up residence in a subject’s unliving form. It
isn’t the consciousness that was in the brain, nor
is it an extraplanar entity.


Unknown Spell 75
Casting Time:  10 minutes
Range: 5 feet
Components:  V, M (a small humanoid skull carved
in jade worth at least 5,000 gp, which the spell
consumes)
Duration:  Instantaneous
You whisper a secret incantation to an undead
creature, awakening a glimmer of intelligence in its
dead mind. Choose a Huge or smaller undead
creature within range that is not hostile to you. The
target must have either no Intelligence score or an
Intelligence of 3 or less. The target gains an
Intelligence of 10. If its Intelligence was higher than
10 when it died, it may or may not regain that Intelligence score, at the DM's discretion. The
target also gains the ability to speak one language of
your choice that you know, as well as any languages
it knew in life. It also gains proficiency in simple
weapons. If the DM rules it had any other skill, tool,
weapon, or armor proficiencies in life, it regains
those as well.
The awakened undead creature is charmed by
you, but is not under your control unless you
control it by other means. It remains charmed by
you for 30 days or until you or your companions do
anything harmful to it. When the charmed
condition ends, the awakened undead creature
chooses whether it will remain friendly to you,
based on how you treated it while it was charmed.


Unknown Spell 76
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self (50 foot radius)
Components:  V, S, M (a battleaxe devoted to
Clangeddin or Morain)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
For the duration of the spell, every dwarf within
range (including duergar, derro, and even creatures
that are only half-dwarf) is immune to being
frightened and gains an additional action on each of
its turns. That extra action can be used only to take
the Attack action and make one weapon attack
only. If an affected dwarf is armed with a handaxe,
battleaxe, or greataxe, their attacks with that
weapon count as magical for the purpose of
overcoming resistance and immunity to nonmagical
attacks and damage.


Unknown Spell 77
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a small piece of azurite)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
Choose a point you can see within range. Every
creature or object in a 20-foot radius sphere

Page 45
centered on the point you selected bursts into azure
colored flames. Creatures caught in the sphere’s
area must make a Dexterity saving throw or take
3d8 fire damage and catch on fire. A successful save
halves the damage and avoids catching on fire.
Unattended objects take the full damage and catch
on fire.
A creature or object that starts its turn on fire
takes 1d8 fire damage. The flames can be snuffed
out with an action, ending the spell for the affected
creature. However, if an affected creature is a fiend,
only a dispel magic, remove curse, or greater
restoration will end the flames, which burn for the
spell’s full duration and deal radiant instead of fire
damage.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 6th level or higher, the initial fire
damage increases by 1d8 for each slot level above
5th. If you cast this spell using a spell slot of 7th
level or higher, the ongoing fire damage increases
by 1d8 for every two slot levels above 5th.


Unknown Spell 78
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S
Duration:  1 hour
You create a shimmering magical aura around any
creature you touch. While casting this spell you
name two other spells. The warded creature is
immune to all effects of the two spells you name,
and whenever it is targeted by one of those spells, it
must make a choice between the following two
effects:
 Healing:  The warded creature can convert the
incoming spell into healing energy. It heals 1d6
hit points per level of the spell targeting it.
 Return Casting:  The caster of the spell
targeting the warded creature becomes the
target of that spell instead. For any effects not
determined when the spell was initially cast, the warded creature is considered the caster of the
spell.


Unknown Spell 79
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 hour
If you do not have any spells prepared (via the
Spellcasting feature of a class that prepares spells,
such as wizard, paladin, druid, or cleric), this spell
has no effect. When you cast this spell, choose any
spell of 1st or 2nd level that you have prepared.
Once the spell is chosen, that selection can’t be
changed until the duration ends.
Until this spell ends, the first time you cast the
chosen spell by expending a spell slot as usual, you
gain the ability to cast that same chosen spell two
more times before the spell ends without expending
a spell slot. This ability to cast the chosen spell
without using spell slots is immediately lost when
duration of this casting of Azuth’s exalted triad
ends, even if that ability has not been used.


Unknown Spell 80
Casting Time:  1 bonus action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S, M (a spellcasting focus)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 10 minutes
You can imbue your normal spellcasting focus with
the power to substitute for a costly spell
component. For the duration, the focus can replace
any one non-consumable spell component with a
cost of 250 gold pieces or less. Once the fedensor is
used to cast a spell with a costly material
component, the spell ends.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 5th level or higher, the spellcasting
focus can substitute for an additional 250 gold
pieces worth of costly material components for each
slot level above 4th.

Page 46


Unknown Spell 81
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 120 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Instantaneous
You instantly launch four volleys of three magical
projectiles. This spell works just like magic missile ,
but you produce a total of 12 magical darts instead
of three.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 7th level or higher, the spell creates
two more darts for each slot above 6th.


Unknown Spell 82
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self
Components:  V, S
Duration:  1 round
You are completely immune to all magical spells
and effects until the start of your next turn. This
immunity prevents any effect that could possibly be
affected by the casting of the dispel magic  spell. If
you are already subject to any such effects, those
effects are suppressed until the spell ends, but the
durations of this effects are not increased.
“In his mortal life, Azuth was an ambitious
wizard who became the first Magister, then the
lover of the goddess Mystra, and finally a god
himself. As a mortal, he was his age’s greatest
researcher of new arcane effects.”
“I consider Azuth’s deification to be a waste; who
knows what further spells he might have invented, had
he not settled for the bland omnipotence of a demigod?”


Unknown Spell 83
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a round black stone)
Duration:  Instantaneous
You place a dark curse on an enemy that causes its
own weapons to work against it. Choose a creature
you can see within range. The creature must roll a
Wisdom saving throw. It takes 2d8 psychic damage
on a failed save, or half as much on a successful one.
In addition, if the creature failed the saving
throw, it has disadvantage on the next weapon
attack roll it makes before the end of its next turn.
The first time the creature makes a weapon attack
and misses before the end of its next turn, it inflicts
the same damage on itself that it would have
inflicted on its target.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, the psychic
damage increases by 1d8 for each slot level above
2nd.


Unknown Spell 84
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 70 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a snare)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
Choose one creature within range, which must
make a Wisdom saving throw. On a success, the
spell has no effect. On a failure, the next time the
target tries to cast a spell, it backfires horribly. The
target takes 1d8 fire damage for every level of the
spell slot use to cast it (or for every level of the spell
itself, if a spell slot is not used).


Unknown Spell 85
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components:  V, S

Page 47
Duration:  Concentration, up to 10 minutes
You must make eye contact with a target creature
that you can see within range. As you speak to the
creature, it must make a Wisdom saving throw.
Creatures that cannot be charmed are immune to
this spell. On a failed save, the target can’t speak
coherently for the duration, nor can it cast spells
with verbal components.
An affected creature can make a new saving
throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the
spell on a success.


Unknown Spell 86
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self (30-foot cone)
Components:  V, S, M (an iron horn)
Duration:  Instantaneous
You send out a thunderous blast of sound.
Creatures caught in the cone must make a Strength
saving throw. Those that fail fall prone and are
pushed 5 feet away from you.
At Higher Levels.  You can cast this spell using a
3rd level or higher spell slot. You launch creatures
that fail their Strength saving throws back 5 more
feet for each spell level above 2nd.


Unknown Spell 87
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (a thin wooden dowel at
least 3-inches in length)
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
Until the spell ends, you gain the ability to move up,
down, and across any horizontal, sloping, or vertical
surface capable of bearing at least half your weight.
You leave your hands free while doing so, even
when moving across surfaces where balancing is
practically impossible. For the duration, you also
gain a climbing speed equal to your walking speed,
proficiency in the Acrobatics skill, advantage on all Dexterity (Acrobatics) and Strength (Athletics)
checks.
While this spell is active, you do not sink when
moving over soft or brittle terrain, such as dust, silt,
mud, snow, or thin ice (though you cannot walk on
actual liquid with this effect), and difficult terrain of
those types does not require extra movement.
If you are already sinking into soft terrain when
you cast this spell, the spell instantly moves you up
to 5 feet towards the surface. When this spell ends,
if you are standing in a place where you would
normally fall or sink, you do so unless you have
some other means of remaining there.


Unknown Spell 88
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 70 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Instantaneous
Choose targets, which can include yourself, within
range and within 50 feet of each other. Those
targets switch places. The targets can try to resist by
making a successful Wisdom saving throw. If one
target successfully saves, the spell fails. The switch
happens instantly and does not provoke attacks of
opportunity.


Unknown Spell 89
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 120 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a handful of copper and iron
pellets)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
A 5-foot diameter ball of lightning appears at a
point you choose within range and lasts for the
spell’s duration. Any creature in the ball’s area when
the spell is cast takes 5d8 lightning damage, or half
as much on a successful Dexterity saving throw.
As a bonus action on each of your turns, you can
move the ball of lightning up to 30 feet vertically or
horizontally. The ball stops moving for the round

Page 48
and deals 5d8 lightning damage if it touches a
creature during its movement. A creature takes half
the lightning damage on a successful Dexterity
saving throw.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 6th level or higher, the amount of
lightning damage increases by 1d8 for each slot level
above 5th.


Unknown Spell 90
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Instantaneous
Your hand glows with a soft, white light,
and you touch one exhausted creature.
The creature is immediately filled with
energy and a new sense of purpose,
as your touch removes one level of
exhaustion from that creature.
At Higher Levels.  When you
cast this spell using a spell slot of
3rd level or higher, you remove an
extra level of exhaustion for each
spell level above 2nd.


Unknown Spell 91
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self (10-foot radius)
Components:  V, S, M (a
handful of rubies worth 500
gp)
Duration:  Concentration, up
to 1 minute
You surround yourself with the
burning rage of the demon
lords, emitting a 10-foot aura
around yourself. For the
duration, at the start of
each of your turns, each creature within this 10-foot aura must make a
Dexterity saving throw, and flammable objects in
the aura that aren't being worn or carried ignite. A
creature takes 4d6 fire damage on a failed saving
throw, or half as much on a success. Any creature
that touches you or hits you with a melee attack
while it is within 10 feet of you must also make this
saving throw. A creature cannot take damage from
this spell more than once in the same turn.


Unknown Spell 92
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S, M (a holy
symbol and a sliver from a broken
mirror)
Duration:  Special
Make a melee spell attack against
one creature within 5 feet of you.
On a hit, the creature has
disadvantage on its next saving
throw. This spell’s magic is
permanent until its effect is
triggered. A dispel
magic will not end
the spell, but
remove curse  cast
with a spell slot of
a level higher than
the one used to
cast this spell will
end it.
At Higher Levels.
When you cast this spell
using a spell slot of
3rd level or higher,
the number of
saving throws
made with
disadvantage
increases by 1 for
each slot level
above 2nd.

Page 49


Unknown Spell 93
Casting Time:  1 minute
Range: 90 ft
Components:  V, S, M (a small knot of inscribed
barbed wire)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You hurl a small knot of inscribed barbed wire,
which grows and springs to life, attacking your foes
and protecting you from harm. The magical
construct you summon appears in an unoccupied
space that you can see within range. The barbed
construct has the same statistics as a shield
guardian  (your DM has these statistics) except that
it does not have the spell storing trait, its fist attacks
inflict piercing damage, and the amulet to which it
is bound appears as a temporary glowing tattoo
around your neck (your DM has statistics for shield
guardians). The barbed construct disappears when
it drops to 0 hit points or when the spell ends.
The barbed construct obeys any verbal
commands you issue to it. Roll initiative for the
barbed construct, which has its own turns. If you
don't issue any commands to the construct, it
defends itself from hostile creatures and uses its
Shield reaction to protect you but otherwise takes
no actions.


Unknown Spell 94
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 100 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a small loop of silver wire)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 10 minutes
You create a hemisphere 10 feet in diameter
anywhere within range. Creatures moving into the
warded area are unhindered., but creatures trying to
leave the warded area are stopped by an invisible
barrier. Treat creatures trying to leave the area as it
was surrounded by a wall of force. Once a creature
is trapped in the warded area, no physical or spell
attack can pass through the wall. A disintegrate
spell will destroy the barrier. The barrier will not stop someone from teleporting, or a similar effect,
out of the area.


Unknown Spell 95
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a medusa’s eye)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
Your eyes turn to stone, although you can see
normally. You can use your action to force any
creature within range to make a Constitution saving
throw. On a failure, it is restrained and its skin
begins turning to stone.
A creature restrained by this spell must repeat the
Constitution saving throw at the end of each of its
turns. If it successfully saves three times, the spell
ends and the creature is no longer restrained. If the
creature fails three Constitution saving throws
before it attains three successes, it is petrified,
turning permanently into stone.


Unknown Spell 96
Casting Time: 1 reaction, which you take when you
would roll an Intelligence or Charisma saving throw
Range: 10 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: 1 round
You erect a psychic shield to protect your mind
from assault, and you ward your allies as well.
Choose a number of creatures within range of this
spell. Until the start of your next turn, you and the
creatures you choose have advantage on
Intelligence and Charisma saves (including against
the triggering effect).


Unknown Spell 97
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: 1 round

Page 50
When tensions erupt into battle, you can exclaim a
magically empowered warning that distracts your
foes, giving you time to move somewhere safer. Roll
7d8 and add the results together, then make a
Charisma (Deception) check and add your result to
that total. The final total is how many hit points of
creatures this spell can affect. Creatures within
range of you that are hostile to you are affected in
ascending order of their current hit points (ignoring
unconscious creatures and creatures that cannot see
or hear you).
Starting with the creature that has the lowest
current hit points, each creature affected by this
spell is incapacitated and restrained until the end of
the current turn. At the beginning of your next
turn, each affected creature becomes incapacitated
and restrained again until the end of that turn, at
which point the spell ends.
Subtract each creature's hit points from the total
before moving on to the creature with the next
lowest hit points. A creature's hit points must be
equal to or less than the remaining total for that
creature to be affected. If you attack one or more
affected creatures, harm one or more of them with a
spell, or force one or more of them to make a saving
throw, this spell's effects end immediately. Undead,
constructs, and creatures immune to being charmed
aren't affected by this spell.


Unknown Spell 98
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S, M (a bit of fur from a bat’s ear)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 10 minutes
You touch a creature and grant it blindsight in a 60-
foot radius for the duration.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, the spell’s duration
increases by 10 minutes for each slot level above
2nd.


Unknown Spell 99
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You create a small ball of force at a point you
choose within range; the ball can be used to batter
your foes and attack objects that are not worn or
carried. As part of the action used to cast the spell,
and by using an action on each of your turns, you
can move the ball up to 30 feet within the spell’s
range, and make a melee spell attack against a
creature or object.
If you hit a creature or object with the ball of
force, it takes 1d6 force damage and must make a
Strength saving throw. On a failed save, the
creature is pushed 10 feet in the opposite direction
and falls prone. On a successful save, the creature
isn’t pushed and doesn’t fall prone.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, the bludgeoning
damage increases by 1d6 for each slot level above
2nd.


Unknown Spell 100
Casting Time:  1 bonus action
Range: Self (20-foot radius)
Components:  V, S
Duration:  1 round
Your battle cry fills your allies with righteous fury,
making their strikes more sure and deadly. Until the
start of your next turn, the first time each turn that
you or a creature friendly to you makes a melee
attack, that creature gains a +2 bonus to the attack
roll. If an attack that benefits from this bonus hits,
the damage of the attack is increased by an amount
equal to your spellcasting ability modifier.

Page 51


Unknown Spell 101
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: Self
Components: V, M (a melee weapon)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You emit an aura of battle magic that helps you
punish foes who avoid engaging you in combat.
Until this spell ends, when a creature within 5 feet
of you makes an attack that does not target you, you
can use your reaction to make a melee weapon
attack against the attacking creature. In addition,
for the duration, any weapon attack you make as
part of your reaction (including opportunity
attacks) inflicts an additional 1d4 psychic damage
on a hit.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, the psychic
damage inflicted increases by 1d4 for every two slot
levels above 1st.


Unknown Spell 102
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self (30-foot radius)
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
This spell creates an inspiring tune that bolsters the
will of all allies within range. For the duration,
whenever an ally that can hear you is within 30 feet
of you, it gains advantage on all Wisdom saving
throws and immunity to the frightened condition.


Unknown Spell 103
Casting Time:  1 bonus action
Range: 30 feet
Components:  V, S, M (an electrum coin)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
Choose one creature you can see within 30 feet of
you as the spell’s target. At the start of each of its
turns until the spell ends, the target gains a d6 battlefate die.  During that turn, when the target
makes an an attack roll, ability check, saving throw,
or damage roll, it can choose to roll the battlefate
die and add the result to the total for that roll.
If the target ends its turn with an unused
battlefate die, it must roll the die immediately,
gaining a bonus to its armor class equal to half the
result. This bonus ends at the start of its next turn.
If a creature would have ever have more than one
battlefate die (such as from multiple castings of this
spell), it chooses only one of the battlefate dice to
keep; the others are lost.
At Higher Levels.  The battlefate die increases
when you cast this spell using a higher-level spell
slot. With a 3rd or 4th level slot, the die increases to
a d8. A 5th or 6th level slot increases the die to a
d10, and a 7th level or higher slots increases it to a
d12.


Unknown Spell 104
Casting Time: 1 reaction, which you take when you
make a Dexterity check for initiative and dislike the
result
Range: Self (60 feet)
Components: V
Duration: Instantaneous
You channel the shifting energies of battle from
chaotic Ysgard, twisting space and time and hoping
for the best. You reroll your Dexterity check for
initiative and must use the new roll. You also roll a
d6. You and each creature within range that is
friendly to you adds the the result of the d6 to its
initiative roll, while each creature that is hostile to
you subtracts the same result from its initiative roll
unless it is immune to being charmed.


Unknown Spell 105
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 hour

Page 52
When you cast this spell, your fingers transform
into razor-sharp talons. For the duration, your
unarmed strikes deal magical slashing damage
instead of bludgeoning, and you can roll a d6 in
place of the normal damage of your unarmed strike.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the spell’s
duration increases by 1 hour for each slot level
above 1st.


Unknown Spell 106
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
This spell imbues a creature you touch with the
ferocity of a wild beast. The next time the target
takes damage that would reduce it to 0 hit points
before the spell ends, it makes a Constitution saving
throw. The DC equals 10 + the damage taken, unless
it is less than 10 damage, in which case the saving
throw succeeds automatically. On a success, the
creature is reduced to 1 hit point instead, and the
spell ends.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, the spell does not
end the first time the target succeeds on the
required saving throw. For a spell slot of 3rd or 4th
level, the spell doesn’t end until the second time the
target succeeds on the save. If the spell slot is 5th or
6th level, the spell doesn’t end until the third
successful saving throw. If the slot is 7th or 8th
level, it is the fourth successful save that ends the
spell. For a 9th-level spell slot, the spell last for the
full duration, no matter how many times the target
succeeds on the saving throw.


Unknown Spell 107
Casting Time: 1 reaction, which you take when a
creature would hit you with an attack or force you
to make a saving throw
Range: Self  Components: V, M (a personal journal)
Duration: 1 round
Instantly searching your own memories and the
experiences of others around you for insight into a
current threat, you predict how a creature will
attack you and give yourself protection against it.
Until the start of your next turn, you gain a +5
bonus to AC against attacks made by the creature
that triggered this spell, and a +5 bonus on saving
throws the same creature forces you to make. This
bonus applies to the attack or saving throw that
triggered this spell.


Unknown Spell 108
Casting Time: 1 reaction, which you take when you
would suffer damage
Range: Self
Components: V
Duration: 1 round
You wrap yourself in a shimmering stasis field,
temporarily warding yourself from the triggering
damage. You roll 3d8, add your spellcasting ability
modifier to the number rolled, and reduce the
triggering damage by that total.
However, this damage has only been delayed. At
the end of your next turn, you take damage equal to
the amount by which the damage was reduced, or
the total damage you would have suffered if you had
not cast this spell (whichever is lower). This damage
is of the same type as the triggering damage, and it
cannot be reduced by any means.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, you can roll an
additional 1d8 to for each spell level above 2nd.


Unknown Spell 109
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 120 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a bear claw)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute

Page 53
You drive an intelligent creature around you into a
frenzied rage. Choose one creature within range,
which must make a Wisdom saving throw. On a
failure, the target gains temporary hit points equal
to your spellcasting ability score + the level of the
spell slot used to cast this spell, and it is temporarily
overwhelmed by an unreasoning battle fury.
While berserk, the target has the following traits:
 It has advantage on Strength checks, Strength
saving throws, and melee weapon attacks.
 When it makes a melee weapon attack using
Strength, on a hit it adds your proficiency bonus
to the damage.
 It gains resistance to
nonmagical bludgeoning,
piercing, and slashing
damage.
 It is unable to cast
or concentrate on
spells.
 Attack rolls against it
have advantage.
In addition, at the beginning
of their turn, if the creature has
no creatures within reach, it
must move towards the
nearest creature and attack
it. Otherwise, the target
must use its action
before moving on each
of its turns to make a
melee attack against a creature other than itself. If,
after moving at its full speed towards the nearest
creature, the target still has no creatures within
reach, it uses the Dash action to move towards the
nearest creature. If it cannot do so, it attacks an
object within range, which may be the ground or a
wall. Whenever there are multiple creatures equally
close to the target, the DM randomly chooses which
one it moves towards or attacks.
At the end of each of its turns, if the target has
made a melee attack since the end of its previous
turn, it can make a Wisdom saving throw. On a success, the spell ends. It also ends early if the
target is incapacitated.


Unknown Spell 110
Casting Time:  1 bonus action
Range: Touch
Components:  V
Duration:  Varies
When you use your action to cast a spell that has a
range of self, you can immediately use your bonus
action to cast this spell and
touch one creature (this is an
exception to the rule that you
can only cast one non-cantrip
spell each turn). That creature is
affected by that spell instead of you,
as if it were the source of the spell.
You are still the caster of the spell,
and if it requires concentration,
you must maintain your
concentration as normal for to
keep the spell from ending. If the
creature does not want the
effects of the spell you are
casting, it can make a
Constitution saving throw
against this effect. On a success,
the spell fails.


Unknown Spell 111
Casting Time:  1 reaction (when you are hit by a
melee attack)
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Instantaneous
You use your reaction make a melee spell attack
against the creature that made the triggering attack.
On a hit, the triggering attack inflicts its damage
normally, but you also inflict necrotic damage equal
to half the amount of damage the triggering attack
inflicted on you.

Page 54


Unknown Spell 112
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components:  V, S, M (the eye of a creature and a
piece of wool)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
Choose a 20-foot radius area you can see within
range. All creatures of your choice within the area
must make a Wisdom saving throw. On a failed
save, the creature is charmed by you for the
duration. A creature charmed by this spell also has
trouble remembering its actions, and it can’t take
bonus actions or reactions until the charmed
condition created by this spell ends.
An affected creature can make a new saving
throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the
effect on itself with a success.


Unknown Spell 113
Casting Time: 1 reaction, which you take when a
hostile creature you can see within 15 feet of you
would make an attack that does not target you
Range: 15 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
Your unsettling gaze catches the enemy's eye just as
it attacks, rattling it enough to interfere with its
strike. The target suffers disadvantage on the
triggering attack. If the attack misses, the target
takes 2d6 psychic damage, and you can pull the
target up to 5 feet closer to you.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, the psychic
damage inflicted increases by 1d6 for each slot level
above 2nd.


Unknown Spell 114
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 300 feet Components:  V, S, M (a small stone sprinkled with
diamond dust worth at least 50 gp, which the spell
consumes)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
As part of the action used to cast this spell, and on
each of your turns for the duration by using your
action, you launch a large bolt of force like that
fired from a ballista. You can launch the bolt at a
creature or object you can see within range. Make a
ranged spell attack. On a hit, the target takes 5d10
force damage. This spell does double damage to
objects and structures.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 7th level or higher, the bolt deals an
extra 1d10 force damage for each slot level above
6th.
“At first I wondered why Khelben included this
spell, as he had always strongly disliked its
creator—the same Oeridian wizard famous
for the many hand-themed spells he developed,
which were later consolidated into the single
spell Bigby’s hand .  Khelben often said that Bigby
‘comes up with one good gimmick, and beats it to
death with a rock.’
“I asked him why he copied this spell into so
many of his grimoires, given this acrimony.
Khelben said he enjoyed ‘the novelty of Bigby
finally having one spell he didn’t base on
appendages.’”
“My understanding was that Khelben’s true rivalry
with my former apprentice Bigby began when they both
competed for the love of the same woman.”
“Ye need not have the intellect of an
archmage to discern why Lady Laeral
might leave out details of that sort.”

Page 55


Unknown Spell 115
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 120 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You cause howling winds to surround a creature of
Large size or smaller that you can see within range.
The creature must make Dexterity saving throw or
it is restrained by the winds. In addition, an affected
creature is considered deafened to any sounds
originating from outside its space and it must make
a Constitution saving throw (concentration check)
to cast spells with somatic components, as the
howling winds block sounds and hinder its gestures.
The creature can use its action to attempt to break
free of the winds by succeeding on a Strength check
against your spell save DC. On a success, it breaks
free, and the spells ends.


Unknown Spell 116
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 5 feet
Components:  V
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You appear to devour an enemy creature, banishing
it to a claustrophobic demiplane that resembles the
belly of some horrid beast. Choose a Medium or
smaller creature within range and make a melee
spell attack against it. If you succeed, the target
vanishes to the demiplane, where it remains for the
duration or until it fights its way free.
At the start of each of its turns, the confined
target must make a Constitution saving throw. It
takes 3d6 acid damage and 3d6 bludgeoning
damage on a failed save, or half as much on a
successful save.
The target can use its action to attack the fleshy
walls confining it. The Armor Class of the walls
equals 10 plus your spellcasting ability modifier. The
walls automatically succeed on all Strength and
Constitution saving throws or checks, but automatically fail all other saving throws or checks.
The walls are immune to all conditions. They
have resistance to acid damage and vulnerability to
poison damage. If the walls take a total of 60 or
more damage, the target escapes, and the spell
ends.
When the spell ends, a rift slashes open in the
nearest unoccupied space to you, and the creature
emerges from it into that space.


Unknown Spell 117
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self
Components:  V, S, M (the fang of a wild predator)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You change yourself into a bestial shape which
resembles the hybrid form of a lycanthrope of your
choice. You retain this form until the spell ends,
gaining the following traits:
 You have resistance to all nonmagical
bludgeoning, piercing, or slashing damage from
weapons that aren’t silvered.
 You have advantage on all Strength checks,
Strength saving throws, and Wisdom
(Perception) checks.
 Your carrying capacity is doubled.
 You grow fangs, which act as a natural weapon
with which you are proficient. You can use your
spellcasting ability instead of Strength for the
attack and damage rolls of melee attacks using
your fangs, which inflict 2d8 piercing damage.
Your fangs are considered magical, granting you
a +1 bonus to the attack and damage rolls you
make using them.
 Your Armor Class cannot be lower than 15, no
matter what kind of armor you are wearing.
 Whenever you take the attack action on your
turn, you can attack with your fangs as a bonus
action.
While in this form, at the start of each of your turns,
you must make a Wisdom saving throw against

Page 56
your own spellcasting DC. If you fail, you cannot
cast spells until the beginning of your next turn.


Unknown Spell 118
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You create a black, blade-shaped planar void that
you grasp with your hand. For the duration, you can
use your action to make a melee spell attack against
any target within 5 feet of you. On a hit, your target
takes 10d6 + 40 force damage. A creature reduced to
0 hit points by the blade is disintegrated (as if by
the disintegrate  spell). A disintegrated creature and
everything it is wearing and carrying, except magic
items, are reduced to a pile of fine gray dust. The
creature can be restored to life only by means of a
true resurrection  or a wish spell. If you drop the
blade or let go of it for any reason, the spell ends if
it is not back in your hand at the end of your next
turn.


Unknown Spell 119
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 10 minutes
One of your arms becomes rubbery and full of
jagged bone spikes. For the duration, you can use
your transformed appendage to make a melee spell
attack against any target within 10 feet, with the
arm obscenely stretching and then snapping back.
On a hit, this attack deals magical piercing damage
equal to 4d4 plus your spellcasting ability modifier.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, you can increase
the damage by 2d4 or the reach by 5 feet for each
level above 2nd.


Unknown Spell 120
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 120 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a pinch of dust from an
immolated vampire)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You exhale black flame toward a creature of your
choice within range. Make a ranged spell attack. On
a hit, your target is engulfed in numbing black
flame and becomes poisoned for the duration. Until
the spell ends, the target must make a Constitution
saving throw at the end of each of its turns. Each
time it fails, it takes 1 level of exhaustion. If the
target makes three successful Constitution saves,
the fire goes out and the spell ends.
While the spell is still active, at the start of each
of the target’s turns, anyone within 5 feet of it must
make a successful Dexterity saving throw. On a
failure, it suffers the same effects as the target,
becoming poisoned by engulfing blackfire.
Anyone killed by the blackfire spell is
disintegrated (as if by the disintegrate  spell). A
disintegrated creature and everything it is wearing
and carrying, except magic items, are reduced to a
pile of fine gray dust. The creature can be restored
to life only by means of a true resurrection  or a wish
spell.
“Cast this on a smaller, faster minion, like
a goblin, a halfling, or an orc child, and
then send it into the midst of your foes.
The result is most amusing.”


Unknown Spell 121
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a piece of coal and a dried
eyeball from any creature)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute

Page 57
You invoke a stationary 20-foot radius sphere of
magical darkness that emanates from a point you
can see within range. This darkness blocks
darkvision and all nonmagical light sources, but you
can see normally through the area. You can cast the
darkness on an object and carry it with you. The
darkness radiates from such an object, and you can
block the darkness by covering the object, as if
hiding the light of a lantern. If the area of the
darkness intersects with an area of magical light
created by a spell of 3rd level or lower, the spell that
created the light is instantly dispelled.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 4th level or higher, the radius of the
sphere increases by five feet for every slot level
above 3rd.


Unknown Spell 122
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a tiny mummified animal)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 10 minutes
Choose a 15-foot radius area within range. Any
living creature within the area must make a
Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, the
creature is outlined with a dark aura and it can’t
regain hit points for the duration. In addition, the
creature can’t benefit from invisibility while affected
by this spell. An affected creature can make another
saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending
the spell’s effect on it with a success.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 7th level or higher, the radius of the
effect increases by five feet for every slot level above
6th.


Unknown Spell 123
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S
Duration:  1 round As part of the action of casting this spell, you can
choose to make a melee spell attack against one
target within 5 feet of you. On a hit, your target
takes 2d10 necrotic damage and must make a
Constitution saving throw. On a failure, it takes an
additional 2d10 necrotic damage at the start of your
next turn.
If you choose not to make the melee spell attack,
as part of the action of casting this spell you can
choose one weapon you touch and coat it in a
sticky, black poison. The next time a melee attack
made with the weapon hits a living creature before
the end of your next turn, the target takes 2d8
poison damage and must make a Constitution
saving throw. On a failure, it takes an additional
2d8 poison damage at the start of your next turn.
Undead and constructs never take damage from
this spell. However, when you damage a plant with
this spell, you deal maximum damage instead of
rolling.


Unknown Spell 124
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a small piece of charcoal
and a small piece of onyx)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
A burst of black force erupts in a 10-foot radius
sphere centered at a point you can see within range.
Creatures caught within the area must make a
Dexterity saving throw, taking 4d6 force damage on
a failed save, or half as much on a success.
For the duration, the area of the sphere remains
encased in a barried of black force. A creature
cannot move out of the sphere’s area unless it uses
its action to make a Strength check against your
spell save DC. On a success, the creature can move
out of the sphere, though when it does its speed is
reduced by half until the end of the turn. On a
failure, the creature takes 1d6 force damage and is
unable to move out of the area.
The sphere is opaque and substantial, and it
cannot be seen into from outide. Creatures within

Page 58
the sphere have total cover against attacks made
from outside of it, and vice-versa.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 5th level or higher, the force damage
from the initial burst increases by 1d6 for every slot
level above 4th.


Unknown Spell 125
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S, M (a specially crafted staff
worth at least 500 gp, which is consumed by the
spell at the end of the duration)
Duration:  1 minute
You touch a staff and imbue it with a shimmering
black radiance. For the duration, the staff has the
following qualities:
 The staff can’t harm the caster or any creature
that was touching it when the spell was cast.
 Melee attacks with the staff are made with
advantage.
 The staff is considered a magic weapon that
deals 3d4 bludgeoning damage on a hit.
 The staff absorbs any spell cast upon it, and
can’t be affected by any spell other than a wish,
antimagic ray, or antimagic shell.
In addition, at the beginning of each of the
wielder’s turns, the wielder can choose one of the
following special effects:
 On a successful melee attack with the staff, the
target’s hit point maximum is reduced by 3d4.
The target’s hit point maximum can only be
restored by greater restoration or similar magic.
 On a successful hit, the staff casts dispel magic
on the target as if you had cast it at its lowest
level.
 On a successful hit, the target must make a
successful Wisdom saving throw, or it can’t cast
spells until the end of its next turn.
 On a successful hit, the target is indecisive and
can’t use an Attack action on its next turn.  On a successful hit, roll for a random effect on
the following table:

The blackstaff can be used by any creature
proficient with staffs; However, for the duration, a
creature touching the staff can’t cast spells. In
addition, if a creature within reach tries to cast a
spell, the staff’s wielder can make an opportunity
attack against the caster. On a hit, the caster’s spell
fails.
“Obviously, the esteemed archmage who
compiled this grimoire created this spell
as well.”


Unknown Spell 126
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: Self
Components: V, M (a melee weapon worth at least
1 sp)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You assume a supernatural combat stance that
channels terror through your weapon in the form of
a howling wind. Until the spell ends, whenever you

Page 59
hit a creature with a melee weapon attack, it takes
an additional 3d4 psychic damage and must make
a Wisdom saving throw. On a failure, the next
attack roll made against this target before the end
of your next turn has advantage, and you can push
the target up to 5 feet away from you.


Unknown Spell 127
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 5 feet
Components: S, M (a melee weapon worth at least
1 sp)
Duration: Instantaneous
As you wield your weapon in a sweeping strike, it
whispers menacingly, filling your foes' minds with
despair. Choose any number of creatures you can
see within range. Make a melee spell attack against
each target. On hit, a target takes psychic damage
equal to 2d6 + your spellcasting ability modifier
and suffers disadvantage on the next saving throw
it makes before the end of your next turn.


Unknown Spell 128
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: Self
Components: V, M (a melee weapon worth at least
1 sp)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You temporarily become a creature of shadow,
flickering in and out of a demiplane on the borders
of the Shadowfell as your weapon ripples with dark
magic. Until the spell ends, you have resistance to
necrotic damage, you inflict 3d4 additional necrotic
damage whenever you hit a creature with a melee
weapon attack.
For the duration, you roll a d20 at the end of each
of your turns. On a roll of 11 or higher, you vanish
from your current plane of existence and appear in
a shadowy reflection of it, which lies somewhere on
the planar boundary between your current location and the Shadowfell. (If you are already in the
Shadowfell when you cast this spell, the spell fails
and the casting is wasted.) At the start of you next
turn, and when the spell ends if you are in the
shadowy reflection, you return to an unoccupied
space of your choice that you can see within 10 feet
of the space you vanished from. If no unoccupied
space is available within that range, you appear in
the nearest unoccupied space (chosen at random if
more than one space is equally near). You can
dismiss this spell as an action.
While in the shadowy reflection, you can see and
hear the plane you originated from, but everything
is lightly obscured, and you can't see anything more
than 30 feet away. You are not truly in the
Shadowfell nor in your previous location during
that time, but somewhere in between the planes.

Page 60
Whenever you are in the shadowy reflection, only
other creatures with resistance or immunity to
necrotic damage can see you or affect you, or be
affected by you.


Unknown Spell 129
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: Self
Components: V
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
The next time you hit a creature with a weapon
attack before this spell ends, your weapon is
weathed in dark energy that freezes your foe in
terror. The attack deals an extra 1d6 psychic
damage, and if the target is not immune to the
frightened condition, its speed is reduced to 0 until
the end of its next turn. If the attack was an
opportunity attack, the target is also frightened
until the end of its next turn.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the extra damage
increases by 1d6 for each slot level above 1st.


Unknown Spell 130
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
A three-foot tear in reality, filled with gnashing
teeth and writhing tongues, extends from your hand
like the blade of a sword. As part of the action of
casting this spell, and as an action on each of your
turns for the duration, you can make a melee spell
attack. If you hit, the target takes psychic damage
equal to 2d8 + your spellcasting ability modifier,
and it must make a Wisdom saving throw. If it fails,
it becomes frightened of the blade and the one
wielding it until the spell ends.
The blade is not a real weapon. You can’t drop it,
and it remains on your person until the spell ends.


Unknown Spell 131
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self
Components:  V, M (a weapon that inflicts slashing
or piercing damage)
Duration:  1 round
Once you cast this spell, your speed is reduced to 0
until the start of your next turn. However, as part of
the action used to cast this spell, you can choose
any number of creatures within 5 feet of you and
make one melee weapon attack against each one,
making a separate attack roll for each target. Each
melee attack must be made with a weapon that does
not have the two-handed or heavy property.
If you are wielding two weapons (one in each
hand) that both inflict piercing or slashing damage,
for each of these melee attacks you choose which of
the two weapons you use to make the attack.
At the end of the turn, each creature you
attacked as part of the action of casting takes
magical slashing damage equal to your spellcasting
ability modifier, whether you hit or missed.
While this spell is active, if you have a weapon in
each hand, until the start of your next turn, when a
creature provokes an opportunity attack from you,
you can use a special reaction granted by this spell
instead of making a normal opportunity attack. You
use this special reaction to attack the provoking
creature twice, once with each of your two weapons.


Unknown Spell 132
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self
Components:  V
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You give a war cry and unleash a dazzling display of
skill with your weapon. Once, on each of your turns,
you can force a creature you hit with your melee
weapon to make a Wisdom saving throw. On a
failed save, the creature is stunned until the end of
its next turn.

Page 61


Unknown Spell 133
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Instantaneous
You blast your opponents with pure force, sending
them flying. Make a ranged spell attack. If you hit
you inflict 2d10 force damage and your opponent
must make a Constitution saving throw. If they fail
they are knocked back 10 feet and fall prone.
At Higher Levels. You can cast this spell using a
3rd level or higher, and you inflict plus 1d10 for each
spell level above 3rd.


Unknown Spell 134
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S, M (an adamantine rod worth at
least 150 gp)
Duration:  Instantaneous
You charge an adamantine rod with energy that an
ally unleash on your enemies. Casting this spell
gives the rod 6 charges. You or an ally can spend
one or more charges to make a ranged attack. If you
hit you inflict 1d8 lightning damage for every charge
expended. Unused charges last for 1 hour before
fading.
At Higher Levels.  You can cast this spell using a
4th level or higher spell slot, and the rod gains one
more charge for each spell level above 3rd.


Unknown Spell 135
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 120 feet
Components:  V, S, M (bones)
Duration:  Special
This spell must be cast on an exposed skeleton
within range. It cannot be cast on the bones of a
living creature if they are still a part of its body, but the spell can be cast on an undead skeleton. The
targeted set of bones explodes, dealing 2d4 + 2
piercing damage to creatures within a 10-foot radius
of it.
If you cast this spell on an undead skeleton, the
skeleton must make a Wisdom saving throw. If the
skeleton fails the save, it takes additional force
damage equal to the amount of piercing damage the
spell inflicts when the bones detonate.
When you cast this spell, you can choose whether
to detonate the bones immediately or delay the
blast for up to one hour. If you choose to delay the
blast, then you can set certain conditions
(“Whenever that door is opened”) or a command
word that will cause the bones to explode.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, the amount of
piercing damage is increased by 1d4 + 1 for each slot
level above 2nd. If you cast it using a spell slot of
4th level or higher, the maximum length of the
optional delay increases to 4 hours. If the spell slot
is 6th level or higher, it increases to 8 hours. If the
slot is 8th level or higher, it increases to 24 hours.


Unknown Spell 136
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: 1 round
A shower of radiance falls upon your enemies and
then bursts out, creating a cage of burning embers
that are painful to pass through. Choose a 10-foot
cube within range. Each creature in the cube must
make a Dexterity saving throw, taking 1d4 radiant
damage if it fails. Until the start of your next turn,
the area of the cube is lightly obscured, and the next
time a creature leaves the area, it takes 1d4 fire
damage and the spell ends. When you reach 5th
level, the radiant damage and fire damage both
increase to 2d4. Both damage rolls increase to 3d4
at 11th level, and 4d4 at 17th level.

Page 62


Unknown Spell 137
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self (30-foot radius)
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You invoke divine inspiration to bolster the ranged
attacks of your allies. Each ally within range gains a
+2 bonus to ranged attack rolls for the duration.


Unknown Spell 138
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Instantaneous
You spit a bubble of black, tarry goo at your
opponent. Make a ranged spell attack. If you hit, the
target is blinded until it or a companion uses an
action to clean its eyes.


Unknown Spell 139
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 300 feet (50-foot radius)
Components:  V, S, M (some tinder and a small
lens)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You create a tiny ball of light that streaks out from
your hand to a point you choose within range. It
bursts into a 50-foot radius sphere, a blistering hot
corona that hovers in place for the duration.
A creature in the area when you cast the spell
must make a Constitution saving throw. On a failed
save, the creature takes 2d6 fire damage from the
searing heat and is blinded until the end of its next
turn. On a successful save, a creature only takes half
the fire damage, and isn't blinded.
For the duration, any creature that starts its turn
within the corona must make a Constitution saving
throw, taking 2d6 fire damage on a failed save, or
half as much damage on a successful one.  At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 5th level or higher, the damage
increases by 1d6 for each slot level above 4th.


Unknown Spell 140
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S, M (a length of red silk ribbon)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 10 minutes
You choose two willing creatures within an
Intelligence of 6 or higher and link their life forces.
Any damage taken by either creature targeted by
this spell is split between the linked creatures. If a
spell that inflicts half damage on a successful saving
throw strikes both creatures, they make only one
saving throw (they choose which creature will make
the save) and then split any damage inflicted
between them per this spell's normal effect.


Unknown Spell 141
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: 1 round
You gamble some of your own life force on a curse
that bedevils your enemy but may empower you.
You can not cast this spell if you currently have less
than 5 hit points. Choose a conscious living creature
within range that can see or hear you. The target
makes a Wisdom saving throw. If it fails, the target
takes 1d4 psychic damage. You also take the same
amount of psychic damage, which cannot be
reduced or redirected in any way.
Before the beginning of your next turn, if the
target is hit with an attack, it takes an additional 1d4
necrotic damage, and the spell ends. When this
happens, you also gain temporary hit points equal
to your spellcasting ability modifier plus the
amount of necrotic damage the creature took.
The necrotic damage increases by an extra 1d4
when you reach 5th level (2d4), 11th level (3d4), and
17th level (4d4).

Page 63
“The creation of many cursing spells is
often attributed to the Vistani tribes of
the benighted realm known as Barovia, or
to the Gur culture of Faer ûn's own
Western Heartlands. However, this
usually arises from a prejudiced attempt
to paint entire human ethnicities as
somehow innately villainous. Those who
know these cultures well can attest that
they are no worthier of general mistrust
than any other human group.”


Unknown Spell 142
Casting Time:  1 bonus action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S
Duration:  1 minute
You touch a creature and cause it to go into a
frenzied rage. The creature gains an extra 10 feet to
its base walking speed and it can use a bonus action
on each of its turns to make a single
melee weapon attack. After the
blood frenzy ends, the
creature suffers one level
of exhaustion.


Unknown Spell 143
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S, M (a
crystal cone)
Duration:
Concentration, up to 10
minutes
You cast this spell on a
willing creature. The
next time that creature
takes damage from a
melee attack a bolts of crimson lightning explode from the wound. Each
creature within 20 feet of the target of this spell
must make a Dexterity saving throw. They take 8d6
lightning damage on a failed save, or half as much
on a successful one.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 5th level or higher, the damage
increases by 1d6 for each level above 4th.


Unknown Spell 144
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self
Components:  V, S, M (a ruby or garnet worth 25
gp)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You are surrounded by a swirling mass of blood red
droplets. These drops move to intercept any attack
by magically joining together and hardening into a
barrier. For the duration, you gain a +4 bonus to AC
and gain advantage on any saving throw versus fire
or cold damage. However, you have
disadvantage on any saving throw
versus lightning damage.
You can use an action to
throw the droplets up to 10
feet from you and reform
them into a stationary
bulwark made of an iron-
like red metal. The
bulwark is 10 feet tall, 10
feet wide, and 1-inch
thick. The bulwark has
AC 15 and 30 hit points.
The bulwark has
resistance to cold damage
and vulnerability to
lightning damage. Once
you have thrown the
droplets, they will remain
in the form of the solid
bulwark until the spell
ends, but you no longer
gain the bonus to AC.

Page 64


Unknown Spell 145
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 50 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a garnet worth 100 gp)
Duration:  Instantaneous
You vomit up a blob of sickly green water. It hovers
in air for split second before flying toward a target
you choose within range. Your target must make a
Constitution save. If they fail their Constitution is
reduced by 1d6 and they are poisoned for 1 minute.
If they succeed the spell fails. A poisoned victim can
make a Constitution save at the end of each of its
turns, ending the condition on a success. The
victim’s Constitution is restored after a long rest, or
by lesser restoration  or similar magic.


Unknown Spell 146
Casting Time:  1 bonus action
Range: 30 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  1 round
You choose one friendly creature within range as
the spell’s target. Until the end of the creature's
next turn, any melee attack it makes with an
unarmed strike or a natural weapon (such as a claw,
bite, or tail) carries the force of the wind, giving that
attack a reach of 20 feet.


Unknown Spell 147
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self
Components:  V, S
Duration:  24 hours
When this spell is cast, you gain excellent tracking
instincts. For the duration of the spell, you have
advantage on Wisdom (Survival) checks to track
other creatures, and on all Wisdom (Perception)
checks related to smell.
In addition, if you lose a quarry due to changing conditions or some other nonmagical effect, you
can make another check with advantage to pick up
the trail.


Unknown Spell 148
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a ruby worth at least 50 gp)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You create a pulsating ruby-red orb that shoots
from your hand to a point you choose within range.
The orb hovers at its destination, shedding dim
light in a 20-foot radius.
You choose any number of creatures within 10
feet of the orb. When a creature you chose takes
damage while within 10 feet of the orb, it must
make a Constitution saving throw. If it fails, it
suffers disadvantage on all Constitution checks and
saving throws until the spell ends.
As a bonus action on each of your turns, you can
move the bloodstar up to 30 feet and choose new
targets. When you do so, creatures who have
previously failed their Constitution saving throw
against the orb's effects can make another
Constitution saving throw if they are not within 10
feet of the orb's new location, ending the effects on
themselves with a success. The orb itself is made
only of light, and cannot take damage or be
attacked.


Unknown Spell 149
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self
Components: S
Duration: Instantaneous
Until the end of the turn, you are invisible and can
take the Dash action as a bonus action. This effect
ends early if you make an attack roll or cast another
spell.

Page 65


Unknown Spell 150
Casting Time: 1 reaction, which you take when a
creature within 5 feet of you uses the Disengage
action
Range: 5 feet
Components: V, M (a weapon)
Duration: 1 round
As part of the reaction used to cast this spell, you
must a melee attack with a weapon against the
triggering creature, otherwise the spell fails. On a
hit, the target suffers the attack's normal effects,
and if the target is more than 5 feet away from you
at the start of your next turn, you can immediately
use a bonus action to teleport up to 30 feet to an
unoccupied space adjacent to that creature. After
you make the choice of whether or not to use your
bonus action to teleport, the spell ends. After this
spell ends, until the end of your next turn, your
speed is halved and you cannot benefit from any
bonus to your speed.
“The blurred step cantrip was developed in imitation of
a psionic power, taught in an intriguing tome known as
the Talaric Codex. This ancient document now exists
only in fragments, but it posits the theory that psionic
powers become more common on any world in direct
proportion to how much of a threat invading aberrations
from the Far Realm pose to that plane.
“Of course, that is a difficult theory to prove or
disprove. What few can deny is that the psychic
warriors who mastered the blurred step, known as
battleminds, were relentless in hunting down
descendants of the Far Realm such as illithids and
aboleths. This particular power made it very difficult
for their quarry to escape.”


Unknown Spell 151
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components:  V, S, M (the eyes of a lawful good
paladin)
Duration:  Instantaneous
As you chant your eyes vanish into swirling black
voids. You can choose one creature that you can see
within 30 feet that has less than 50 hit points and
force it to make a Constitution save. On a failure, it
is reduced to 0 hit points and must immediately
make its first death saving throw.
Anyone killed by this spell rises as a bodak 24
hours later (your DM has statistics for bodaks). If
the body has been destroyed or buried, the undead
god Orcus will create a new body for the bodak near
where it died. The bodak is not under your control.
In fact, a bodak you create in this way will likely
seek you out to take a long and bloody revenge
upon you.


Unknown Spell 152
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 10 minutes
When you cast this spell, sharp metallic blades
sprout from your body and all your gear. You are
proficient with the blades as light melee weapons
that inflict 1d6 + your Strength modifier piercing
damage. You can choose to attack with the blades
using an attack action, and can even attack with one
using each hand (following all normal rules for
wielding a light weapon in each hand).
In addition, for the duration, you can deal
damage when successfully grappling a creature.
Whenever you have a creature grappled at the end
of your turn, that creature takes piercing damage
equal to 1d6 + your Strength modifier.
Finally, you have advantage on all ability checks
or saving throws made to escape a grapple, and

Page 66
whenever a creature tries to grapple you, it takes
piercing damage equal to 1d6 + your Strength
modifier, whether they succeed or fail in their
grapple attempt.
“I suspect this spell was inspired by the
bladelings, a race hailing from the plane of
Acheron. They have skin of a dull metallic hue,
sported with patches of keen metallic spines, and
eyes that gleam like shards of purple ice. It is
likely they are not truly native to Acheron, but
immigrated there, pershaps from the Hells,
Gehenna, or some unknown metal-based plane.”


Unknown Spell 153
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S, M (a kernel of corn, and a drop
of water)
Duration:  12 hours
The target gains the following benefits for 12 hours
or until the next time it finishes a long rest
(whichever comes first), at which point the spell
ends:
 The need for rest is reduced. The target gains
the benefits of a short rest after 30 minutes.
 The target can hold its breath 10 times longer
than normal.
 The target can set an internal alarm clock to go
off after a set amount of time, up to the
duration. Once the time has elapsed, the target
can hear a faint ringing.


Unknown Spell 154
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a water-filled crystal goblet
worth at least 500 gp)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute You rub the crystal goblet while chanting a poetic
verse, and it begins to resonate with an earsplitting
tone. Choose a creature within range as your target;
the piercing tone wracks the target’s body with
painful vibrations, and it must make a Constitution
saving throw. On a failed save, the creature takes
3d10 thunder damage and has disadvantage on
ability checks and saving throws with one ability
score of your choice until the end of its next turn.
The creature must make a new Constitution
saving throw at the end of each of its turns, with the
effects described above happening on a failed save.
This is repeated every round until the spell ends.


Unknown Spell 155
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self (5-foot radius)
Components:  V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Your body emanates blazing fire in a 5-foot radius.
When a creature enters the spell’s area for the first
time on a turn or starts its turn there, the creature
must make a Dexterity saving throw. The target
takes 2d4 fire damage on a failed save, or half as
much damage on a successful one.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, the fire damage
increases by 1d4 for each slot level above 2nd.


Unknown Spell 156
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 90 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a flask of oil)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You create four 10-foot cubes within range, and
boiling oil rains down inside those cubes, burning
all the unfortunate creatures inside. Each cube must
share at least one side with another cube. Every
creature inside the cube must make a Dexterity
save. They take 4d6 fire damage on a failed save and
half as much on a successful one.

Page 67
At Higher Levels. You can cast this spell using a
5th level or higher spell slot, and the damage
increases by plus 1d6 for each level above 4th.


Unknown Spell 157
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components:  V, S, M (your holy symbol)
Duration:  Instantaneous
You stretch out your hand and a bolt of blinding
energy leaps at your target. Make a ranged spell
attack at a target you can see within range. Undead,
fiends, and creatures with sunlight sensitivity take
10d8 radiant damage on a hit; aberrations, beasts,
constructs, elementals, monstrosities, oozes,
lycanthropes, and chromatic dragons take half as
much. Other creatures are not affected by this spell.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 7th level or higher, the amount of
radiant damage increases by 1d8 for each slot level
above 6th.


Unknown Spell 158
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 120 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You cast magical disrupting bolts that prevent a
creature from taking actions. Select a creature you
can see within range. The target must make a
successful Wisdom saving throw or be unable to
take any actions until after the end of its next turn.
Until the spell ends, you can make the attack again
on each of your turns as an action, though it must
be against the same target. This spell doesn’t
prevent a creature from taking lair actions or
legendary actions.


Unknown Spell 159
Casting Time:  1 action Range: Touch
Components:  V, S, M (a bladed weapon and a bone
from any creature)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You touch a bladed weapon and transform it into an
identical weapon made of white ivory. After the
transformation, the weapon has the exact damage,
size, and weight of the original, but has the
following special properties:
 It is unbreakable, though it crumbles to dust
when the spell ends.
 It is considered magical.
 The blade inflicts an extra weapon die of
damage against undead.
 An undead creature struck with the weapon
takes an additional 1d4 necrotic damage each
round for the duration.
 Once per turn, you can force an undead
creature you hit with the bone blade to make a
Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, the
creature is disintegrated. If an undead creature
disintegrated by this weapon has a CR of 4 or
more, the blade also crumbles to dust.


Unknown Spell 160
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 300 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a tiny replica of a javelin
carved from bone)
Duration:  1 minute
You create a magical javelin that hovers above your
head. When the javelin appears, make a ranged
spell attack against a target of your choice within
range. The javelin ignores up to three-quarters
cover as it turns in flight to avoid obstacles. On a
successful hit, the target takes 3d6 piercing damage.
Regardless of whether you hit or not, the javelin
reappears above your head. Until the spell ends, you
can use a bonus action on each of your turns to
repeat this attack against the same target or a
different one.

Page 68


Unknown Spell 161
Casting Time:  1
action
Range: 50 feet
Components: V, S, M
(a miniature silver
fiddle)
Duration:
Concentration, up to 1
minute
An ethereal fiddle bow
appears next to one
creature that you can see
within range. The fiddle
bow immediately starts to
“play” the bones of your
target creature. Your
target must make a
Constitution save. If
they fail, they take 2d8
slashing damage at the
beginning of their turn
for the duration. The
target make a
Constitution save at the
end of each of its turns
to end the spell. The
spell’s effects continue
even if the target
moves out of your line
of sight or beyond the
spell’s range. The
spell ends if it enters an
area of magical silence
(such as the silence spell).
The music produced by
bonefiddle is hauntingly beautiful and
harmonizes with your victim’s screams
of pain.


Unknown Spell 162
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (a
four-leaf clover)
Duration:  1 minute
The creature touched gains
proficiency with all
weapons (including
improvised weapons) and
tools for the duration. In
addition, the recipient
gains double the
proficiency bonus with
any tools and ability
checks with which it is
already proficient.
Though, the caster
could gain the benefits
of this spell, it is
considered sinful by the
faithful of Tymora to do
so.


Unknown Spell 163
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self
Components:  V, S
Duration: 10 minutes
You regain 2d8 + 8 hit
points, but you are
blinded for the duration.
The blinded condition
can’t be removed by any means
until the spell ends. For the duration, you
regain 1 hit point at the start of each of your turns
unless you are killed outright. You can regenerate
severed body members (fingers, legs, tails, and so
on) by the end of the full duration.

Page 69
CastingTime:  1 action
Range: 50 feet
Components: V, S, M (a tuning fork)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Choose one creature within range, which must
make a Wisdom saving throw. On a failure, its
mouth rebels against it. At the end of each turn, if
the creature spoke even once during that turn
(including casting a spell with a verbal component),
it takes 1d8 psychic damage. The target may repeat
the Wisdom saving throw at the end of each of its
turns, ending the spell on a success.


Unknown Spell 164
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 300 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a quartz crystal embedded
in rock)
Duration:  Instantaneous
You bombard a 60-foot tall by 30-foot radius
cylindrical area within range with falling boulders.
Any creature caught in the spell’s area takes 12d6
bludgeoning damage and is buried under 5 feet of
rubble. A successful Dexterity saving throw halves
the damage and avoids burial. Any creature buried
under the rubble is restrained but can use an action
on its turn to make a DC 20 Strength check to free
itself.
A buried creature that fails the Strength check to
free itself is restrained and trapped until help
arrives. At least one person digging through the
rubble can free a trapped creature in 1 minute.


Unknown Spell 165
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 300 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a spider)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 10 minutes You can eavesdrop on the thoughts of up to eight
other creatures at once. The targets must each make
an Intelligence saving throw. For the creatures that
fail their saving throws, you can choose to perceive
your choice of one of the following for 1 minute,
making a new choice at the end of each minute:
 The surface thoughts of all creatures who failed
their saving throw, in any order.
 Information from all eight creature's minds on
one subject of your choice.
 Insight from one of the target creatures into its
reasoning (if any), its emotional state, and
information on either one subject of your choice
of your choice or on something that looms large
in its mind (such as something it worries over,
loves, or hates).
For the duration, as an action on your turn, you
can implant a suggestion in the mind of one of the
creatures with whom you are connected, as per the
suggestion  spell. If a creature resists your
suggestion, it is immune to any further attempts,
but it is not freed from the brain spider .


Unknown Spell 166
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (a diamond worth 5000 gp
which the spell consumes)
Duration:  1 round
Your skin sloughs off and the rest of your body
transforms into pure energy. For this round you
have a fly speed of 120 feet and you can fly through
solid objects. However, If you end your turn inside a
solid object, you will be moved to the nearest empty
space.
Brainblaze bolts. While in this form you may
use spell levels to power up to 4 bolts. Use your
bonus action to make a ranged spell attack. On a
hit, you deal 2d8 damage for every spell level you
sacrificed to power the bolt. You may choose to
make the bolts force, radiant, or psychic damage.
You may change the damage type for each bolt.

Page 70


Unknown Spell 167
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 50 feet
Components:  V
Duration:  1 hour
Choose one target within range, which must make a
Wisdom saving throw. On a failure, the target takes
a -20 penalty on the roll for its next ability check
before the spell ends.
Once the target takes that penalty on an ability
check, until the spell ends, the target must repeat
the Wisdom saving throw any time it would make
an ability check. On a failure, its roll for that ability
check suffers the same -20 penalty.
If the target succeeds on the Wisdom saving
throw three times, the spell ends.


Unknown Spell 168
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 90 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Instantaneous
Your solemn curse causes fire to leap at your
enemies to brand them. Choose up to three
creatures within range that you can see. Each
creature must make a Dexterity saving throw,
taking 8d6 fire damage on a failed save or half as
much on success. If a creature that failed its saving
throw is hit by an attack roll before the end of your
next turn, it takes 20 additional fire damage.
At Higher Levels.  If you use a 9th-level spell slot
to cast this spell, the fire damage increases to 10d6,
the range increases to 150 feet, and you choose up to
5 creatures.


Unknown Spell 169
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S Duration:  24 hours
Choose air, earth, fire, or water. For the duration of
the spell, you can breathe that element normally, as
if it were whatever element you normally breathe
(air for most surface creatures, water for most
creatures of the sea).


Unknown Spell 170
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self (150-foot radius)
Components:  V
Duration:  Concentration, up to 10 minutes
You can detect the presence of all breathing
creatures within 150 feet of you. The size of each
creature and its general direction can be
determined, but not its exact location. You can
sense the general size of a creature by its breathing.
However, the breath signature of a creature can be
muffled if it is behind total cover or in another
room. You’ll detect a creature as one size smaller if
it is behind total cover.


Unknown Spell 171
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 150 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 10 minutes
Thorny plants sprout from the ground in a 40-foot
radius, starting from a point within range. For the
duration, these plants turn the ground in the area
into difficult terrain. A creature takes 1d4 piercing
damage when it enters the area and for every 5 feet
it travels through the area.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, the piercing
damage increases by 1d4 for each slot level above
2nd.


Unknown Spell 172
Casting Time:  1 action

Page 71
Range: Self (30-foot radius)
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
When you cast this spell, the weapons of all
creatures of your choice within range glow with
radiant energy for the duration. An affected weapon
sheds dim light in a 10-foot radius, deals radiant
damage instead of its normal damage type, and
ignores non-living material, causing attacks with
the affected weapon against creatures wearing
armor or using shields to be made with advantage.
In addition, undead creatures are considered
vulnerable to the damage caused by a weapon
affected by this spell. Constructs, however, gain
resistance to the damage of these weapons.


Unknown Spell 173
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 10 minutes
When you cast this spell, one weapon of your
choice or up to twenty pieces of ammunition within
range glow with radiant energy. An affected weapon
sheds dim light in a 10-foot radius, deals radiant
damage instead of its normal damage type, and
ignores non-living material, causing attacks with
the affected weapon against creatures wearing
armor or using shields to be made with advantage.
In addition, undead creatures are considered
vulnerable to the damage caused by a weapon
affected by this spell. However, these weapons also
inflict damage on constructs as if they had
resistance to radiant damage.


Unknown Spell 174
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 50 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a shattered crystal)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute You make a creature’s armor or other outer
covering crystalline and brittle, so that each time
the creature is struck, shards of crystal break and
are driven into its skin. Choose one target within
range, which must make a Wisdom saving throw.
On a failure, the target suffers a penalty to its
Armor Class equal to your spellcasting ability
modifier (minimum 1). For the duration, whenever a
target that failed the saving throw against this spell
takes bludgeoning, piercing, or slashing damage, it
takes additional damage of the same type equal to
your spellcasting ability modifier.


Unknown Spell 175
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a thin sheet of acid etched
platinum worth 3000 gp)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You temporarily close off a spellcasting foe’s access
to a particular type of magic. Choose one creature
within range, which must make a Wisdom saving
throw. On a failure, you choose one school of
magical spell (abjuration, conjuration, divination,
etc.); for the duration, that creeature cannot cast
any spell from that school of magic. The target can
repeat the Wisdom saving throw at the end of each
of its turns, ending the spell on a success. The spell
also ends early if the target would suffer the effects
of another burn path  spell.


Unknown Spell 176
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self
Components:  V, M (a bladed weapon)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minutes
The blade in your hand is limned with crimson
flame. As part of the action used to cast this spell,
you must make a melee attack with the weapon,
otherwise the spell fails. On a miss, the spell ends.
On a hit, the target suffers the attack's normal

Page 72
effects and takes an additional 3d6 fire damage, and
until the spell ends, your attacks with the weapon
deal an extra 1d6 fire damage on a hit.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 4th level or higher, whenever you deal
fire damage with his spell, the fire damage is
increased by an amount equal to your spellcasting
ability modifier.


Unknown Spell 177
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 120 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a drop of blood and a pinch
of saltpeter)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You infect the blood of a creature within range with
a toxic mixture of corrosive fluids. The target must
make a Constitution saving throw. On failure, it
takes 1d8 acid damage and 1d8 fire damage. Until
the spell ends, the target can’t take reactions, and it
can only take move actions on its turn.
On a successful save, the target doesn’t take any
damage or suffer any ill effects that turn. However,
for the spell's duration, the target must make a new
Constitution saving throw at the start of each of its
turns, or it takes the damage and suffers the spell's
effects.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 5th level or higher, the amount of acid
and fire damage increases by 1d8 for each slot level
above 4th.


Unknown Spell 178
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 10 minutes
You grow short, thick claws. They are useless for
combat, but ideal for tunneling through the earth.
You gain a burrow speed equal to your walking
speed.


Unknown Spell 179
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self (60-foot cone)
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Instantaneous
You gather an orb of pure cold in your hand,
concentrating for an instant before sending it
cascading over your enemies, freezing your enemies
down to the bone. Creature caught in the area of
effect must make a Constitution saving throw.
Creatures take 20d6 cold damage on a failed save,
and half as much on a successful one. Enemies
reduced to 0 hit points by this blast are turned to
ice and instantly slain. A creature that dies in this
way can only be returned to life by a true
resurrection or wish spell, or divine intervention.
“What once were foes are now statues of
ice. A fine way to decorate!”


Unknown Spell 180
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 150 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Instantaneous
You give a high-pitched scream that erupts into a
thunderous 20-foot radius burst at a point you
choose within range. Each creature in the affected
area must make a Constitution saving throw or take
10d8 thunder damage on a failed save, or half as
much damage on a successful one. This spell fails if
cast into an area affected by silence.
A creature made of inorganic material such as
stone, crystal, or metal has disadvantage on this
saving throw. A nonmagical object that isn't being
worn or carried also takes the damage if it's in the
spell's area. The sound of this spell can be heard up
to 900 feet away (or farther with a successful
Wisdom (Perception) check as determined by your

Page 73
DM).
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 6th level or higher, the damage
increases by 1d6 for each slot level above 5th.


Unknown Spell 181
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self (10-foot radius)
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 10 minutes
You emit a rhythmic droning sound that creates a
10-foot radius sonic barrier around you, and which
moves with you. Creatures on either side of the
barrier perceive it as a harmless buzzing sound.
However, the barrier disrupts both magical and
nonmagical missiles fired into or out of it, causing
disadvantage on ranged attack rolls.
The barrier can also disrupt spells that deal
thunder damage. A spellcaster attempting to cast a
spell that deals thunder damage into the area must
make an ability check for their spellcasting ability,
against a DC equal to your spell save DC. On a
successful check, the spell works normally, but it is
dispelled on a failed check.
A creature that attempts to cross the barrier in
either direction must make a Constitution saving
throw. On a failed save, the creature is deafened for
1 minute and takes 4d6 thunder damage. The
creature can attempt a new saving throw at the end
of each of its turns, and on a success, it is no longer
deafened. If the creature succeeded on its saving
throw when it crossed the barrier, it takes half the
thunder damage and isn’t deafened. A creature
made of inorganic material such as stone, crystal, or
metal has disadvantage on this saving throw.
A creature that is forced to cross the barrier is not
affected by the cacophonic shield  for that
movement.
A creature made of inorganic material such as
stone, crystal, or metal has disadvantage on this
saving throw.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 6th level or higher, the damage increases by 1d6 for each slot level above 5th.


Unknown Spell 182
Casting Time:  1 bonus action
Range: Self
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
Both your hands must be empty when you cast this
spell, which causes an otherworldly polearm made
of smoldering green iron to appear in your two free
hands. This magic polearm lasts until the spell ends.
It counts as a martial melee weapon with which you
are proficient, and you can use your spellcasting
ability instead of Strength for the attack and
damage rolls of melee attacks using that weapon. It
deals 4d10 necrotic damage on hit and has the
heavy, reach, and two-handed properties.
In addition, when you hit a creature with the
polearm, the target’s speed is reduced by half, you
pull it 5 feet closer to you, and all melee attacks
against the target are made with advantage until it
starts its turn further than 5 feet away from you.
If you drop the weapon, it dissipates at the end of
the turn. Thereafter, while the spell persists, you
can use a bonus action to cause the polearm to
reappear in your hand.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 7th level or higher, the damage
increases to 5d10.


Unknown Spell 183
Casting Time: 1 reaction, which you take when you
or an ally within range reduces a hostile creature to
0 hit points
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: 10 minutes
When their comrade falls, you convince
beleaguered foes they would be wiser to surrender.
Roll 6d6 and add the results together, then make a
Charisma (Intimidation) check and add your result
to that total. The final total is how many hit points

Page 74
of creatures this spell can affect. Creatures within
range of you that are hostile to you are affected in
ascending order of their current hit points (ignoring
unconscious creatures and creatures that cannot see
or hear you).
Starting with the creature that has the lowest
current hit points, each creature affected by this
spell drops any weapons it is holding, and for the
duration it can take no action except the Dodge,
Disengage, or Dash actions. You can make any
creature affected by this spell indifferent about
creatures of your choice that it is hostile toward.
Subtract each creature's hit points from the total
before moving on to the creature with the next
lowest hit points. A creature's hit points must
be equal to or less than the remaining
total for that creature to be affected.
This spell ends early on any
target that is attacked
or harmed by a spell,
or that witnesses any
of its friends being
harmed. When the
spell ends, a target
remains indifferent unless the DM
rules that it becomes hostile again.
Undead, constructs, and creatures
immune to being frightened aren't
affected by this spell.
At Higher Levels.  When
you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 3rd level or
higher, roll an
additional 2d6
for each slot
level
above
2nd.


Unknown Spell 184
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 50 feet
Components:  V, S, M (the eyes of a werewolf)
Duration:  Instantaneous
Choose a target within range, which must make a
Wisdom saving throw. On a failure, the next time
the target falls asleep, it awakens 30 minutes later
mad with rage, immediately moving towards the
nearest creature that moves and making a melee
attack against it. While enraged by this spell, target
does not cast spells or make ranged attacks, but is
compelled to continue making melee
attacks against its target.
This mad rage continues for 1 minute,
during which time it continues to
attack its target relentlessly. It
only willingly stops if the target
creature is dead or somehow
completely removed from the
situation, in which case it
chooses the nearest creature
that moves as its new target and
attacks it in the same way.
The creature enraged by this
spell can repeat the Wisdom
saving throw at the end of each
of its turns, ending the spell on
a success. Otherwise, the spell
ends 1 minute after the creature
awoke in its rage.
When this spell ends, the target falls
unconscious and goes back to sleep.
Unless awakened, it sleeps for whatever
length of time it would normally sleep.
The target retains no memory of what
happened while it was ensorcelled by this
spell.

Page 75


Unknown Spell 185
Casting Time:  1 minute
Range: Self (30 feet)
Components:  V, S, M (an offering, see spell)
Duration:  1 week
You summon a nightmare from the lower planes to
serve as mount. You must present an offering to the
nightmare to ensure its loyalty, but what the
nightmares want varies wildly from one to another.
A soul of a young child is the often a safe choice. If
the nightmare approves of the offering it will serve
the spellcaster for one week before returning to the
lower planes. Casting this spell again will summon a
new nightmare or the same one, depending on the
caster’s desire. If the nightmare disapproves of the
offering it disappears in a cloud of rancid smoke. If
the offering is particularly lacking, the nightmare
may return with allies.


Unknown Spell 186
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self (20-foot radius)
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 10 minutes
When you cast this spell, it stills the air around you,
creating an area of calm within a 20-foot radius
sphere centered on you. A creature inside the spell’s
area is immune to the effects of high winds from
either natural effects or spells. In addition, air-based
elemental creatures treat the area as difficult terrain
for the duration, and feel an instinctive urge to
avoid entering it.
The spell’s protective area moves with the caster,
who can only move at half speed while
concentrating on the spell.


Unknown Spell 187
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 30 feet Components:  V, S
Duration:  1 hour
Choose a candle or torch. For the duration of the
spell, that candle or torch will not be extinguished,
even if placed under water or in high winds. He
flame is sustained by magic. Any fires caused by the
candle or torch are normal fires.


Unknown Spell 188
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S, M (a bit of fur and a metal rod)
Duration:  Instantaneous
You enchant a small (no more than 6” to a side)
wooden box and choose a password. As long as the
box is closed, the spell has no effect, but will still be
detectable by detect magic.  If the box is placed on
the ground, opened, and the password said aloud,
the spell takes effect. For 10 minutes any creature
that comes within 10 feet of the box without saying
the password is hit by a bolt of lightning and must
make a Dexterity saving throw. They take 6d6
lightning damage on a failed saving throw and half
as much on a successful one. Destroying or closing
the box ends the spell. You must complete a short
rest before you can cast this spell again.


Unknown Spell 189
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
When you cast this spell, your eyes transform into
dimly lit gray orbs that can petrify your foes. For the
duration, at the end of each of your turns, you can
force any creature within 30 feet of you who can see
you to make a Constitution saving throw. If the
creature fails its saving throw, it is restrained and
must make another Constitution saving throw at
the end of its next turn.
If the second saving throw is successful, the effect

Page 76
on the creature ends. If the creature fails the second
saving throw, it is petrified until a greater
restoration  spell or similar magic frees it.
If a creature fails the initial saving throw by 5 or
more, it is immediately petrified as described above.


Unknown Spell 190
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self (10-foot radius)
Components:  V
Duration:  Instantaneous
You pronounce a divine sanction against those who
oppose your creed. Choose one of the following
alignment types: chaotic, good, evil, or lawful. You
cannot choose an alignment type that includes your
own alignment. All creatures you choose within 10
feet that have an alignment of the type you chose
must make a Constitution saving throw. On a failed
save, a target takes 7d6 psychic damage. On a
successful save, a target takes half the psychic
damage.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 5th level or higher, the psychic
damage increases by 1d6 for each slot level above
4th.


Unknown Spell 191
Casting Time: 1 reaction, which you take when you
would take damage from falling
Range: Self
Components: V
Duration: Instantaneous
You gain resistance to damage from falling,
including against the triggering damage. If you fall
less than 30 feet, you can land on your feet instead
of falling prone unless you take damage from the
fall equal to half your maximum hit points or
higher.


Unknown Spell 192
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 5 feet
Components:  V, M (a weapon)
Duration:  1 round
As part of the action used to cast this spell, you
must make a melee weapon attack against one
creature within the spell's range, otherwise the spell
fails. On a hit, the target suffers the attack's normal
effects, and magically conjured acid traces the path
your weapon cut through the air.
If the target ends its next turn within 5 feet of one
or more other creatures you can see, you can inflict
acid damage equal to your spellcasting ability
modifier on your choice of one of those creatures.
Whether or not this happens, at the end of the
target’s next turn, the spell ends.
This spell's damage increases when you reach
higher levels. This spell's damage increases when
you reach higher levels. At 5th level, the melee
attack deals an extra 1d10 acid damage to the target,
and the acid damage to the second creature
increases to 1d10 + your spellcasting ability modifier.
Both damage rolls increase by 1d10 at 11th level and
17th level.


Unknown Spell 193
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You perform a magical drinking song that causes
listeners to become highly intoxicated. Choose up
to six creatures that can hear you within range. For
the duration of the spell, on each of your turns you
can use a bonus action to make a DC 10 Charisma
(Performance) check. If you succeed, each of the
creatures must make a Wisdom saving throw. A
creature that fails this saving throw is charmed by
you and poisoned until the end of your next turn, as
if it were heavily intoxicated due to drinking.

Page 77
Creatures that have succeeded on a saving throw
against this spell within the past minute have
advantage on subsequent saving throws against it.
“I once subdued an entire tribe of
Uthgardt barbarians using this spell. We
sang forty-three increasingly slurred
rounds of ‘When I Drain the Rosy Bowl’,
by the end of which time they were all
unconscious. I couldn’t speak for two days
after.’’


Unknown Spell 194
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a holy symbol)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You conjure a great fist of light that smashes down
on your enemy and seeks to hold that foe fast in its
grip. Choose a large or smaller creature within
range. The target must make a Dexterity saving
throw. On a failed save, it takes 4d4 radiant damage
and is restrained until the end of its next turn. On a
successful save, it takes half as much damage, and
isn’t restrained.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the radiant
damage increases by 1d8 for each slot level above
1st.


Unknown Spell 195
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components:  V, S, M (brain tissue of a mind
flayer)
Duration:  Instantaneous
You inflict one creature with crippling madness. If
the target fails an Intelligence saving throw, roll
twice on the Long-Term Madness table (see
“Madness” in chapter 8 of the Dungeon Master’s
Guide). The effects of the madness are immediate and last for 24 hours. If you rolled the same results
twice, the madness lasts 48 hours.
The target may infect up to six different people
with madness. The first six people it touches within
24 hours of becoming mad must make an
Intelligence saving throw or be inflicted with the
same madness as the original target. This madness
lasts 24 hours, even if the original target rolled the
same result twice.
A creature infected with madness from this spell's
original target can spread it as well, forcing each of
the first three people it touches during the 24-hour
duration of its madness to make an Intelligence
saving throw with advantage, contracting the same
madness for 12 hours on a failure. Creatures who
contract this madness from the touch of a creature
besides the spell's original target, cannot pass it on
to others.


Unknown Spell 196
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 5 feet
Components: V, M (a weapon)
Duration: 1 round
As part of the action used to cast this spell, you
must make a melee weapon attack against one
creature within the spell's range, otherwise the spell
fails. On a hit, the target suffers the attack's normal
effects, and you mark the creature until the end of
your next turn, bellowing a magical challenge it
cannot ignore. This spell ends early if you are
incapacitated or you die, or if someone else marks
the creature.
The next time a creature marked by you with this
spell makes an attack roll that doesn’t target you
while it is within 5 feet of you, it has disadvantage
on the attack.
If a creature marked by you with this spell
willingly moves more than 30 feet away from you, or
if makes an attack that suffers disadvantage from
this spell, it immediately takes 1d8 psychic damage,
and the spell ends.
At Higher Levels.  At 5th level, the melee attack

Page 78
deals an extra 1d8 psychic damage to the
target, and you add an additional 1d8 to the
damage a creature you marked with this spell
suffers for moving more than 30 feet away from
you or attacking you with the disadvantage
imposed by this spell. Both damage rolls increase by
1d8 at 11th level and 17th level.
“Some sages suggest that challenger’s
mark is not a true magical effect, but is
rather a product of intimidation,
suggestion, and martial confidence.”


Unknown Spell 197
Casting Time:  1 bonus action
Range: Self
Components:  V, S, M (a lizard scale or tail)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 hour
You magically blend in with your surroundings. So
long as you are motionless, you have advantage on
Dexterity (Stealth) checks, and attack rolls against
you have disadvantage. If you move, the effect ends.


Unknown Spell 198
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a gold chain of five links
worth 1,000 gp)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
Choose five willing humanoid creatures within
range, and designate one as the champion. The
other four people may sacrifice some of their
strength and combat prowess to the champion. The
choice of whether to do so must be made
immediately when the spell is cast.
If at least one creature chooses to make the
sacrifice, for the duration, it gains disadvantage on
attack rolls, Strength checks, and Strength saving
throws, but the champion gains advantage on those
same rolls. If more than one creature chooses to

Page 79
make the sacrifice, each of the other sacrificing
creatures also gains disadvantage on attack rolls,
Strength checks, and Strength saving throws, for
the duration but the champion inflicts an extra
1d12+5 force damage on melee attacks and attacks
with thrown weapons for each creature that made
the sacrifice beyond the first.
All penalties and bonuses granted by this spell
last until it ends, regardless of whether any or all of
the targets remain within range or change their
minds.


Unknown Spell 199
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S, M (a staff, see the description)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You transform a specially prepared staff into a
creature that is identical to a treant, except it
cannot speak or animate trees. The creature is
friendly to you and follows your commands to the
best of its abilities. If you do not issue commands, it
takes no action on its turn other than to defend
itself. It acts on your initiative, beginning its turn as
soon as yours ends. If it is reduced to 0 hit points, it
reverts to a staff and shatters. You can only have
one changestaff  spell active at a time, and you must
wait 24 hours before casting it again.
The staff used for this spell must be prepared over
the course of a lunar month. Each night you carve
intricate runes into it while muttering eldritch
invocations. At the end of the cycle, the staff is
ready for use.


Unknown Spell 200
Casting Time: 1 reaction, which you take when you
roll a d20 and dislike the result
Range: Self
Components: V, M (a pair of dice)
Duration: Instantaneous You ally yourself with the otherworldly randomness
of the plane of Limbo, changing your fortunes for
good or for ill. You roll a d10 and a d4. You add the
number rolled on the d10 to the result of the
triggering d20 roll. You then subtract the number
rolled on the d4 from the same d20 roll.


Unknown Spell 201
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self (30 foot radius)
Components:  V, S, M (a slaad’s eye)
Duration:  Instantaneous
A shimmering hammer made of multicolored light
appears above you and slams into the ground,
exploding into a terrifying energy blast. Every
creature within range must make a Dexterity saving
throw. Creatures that are not of chaotic alignment
take 8d8 damage on a failed save, or half as much
on a success. Creatures of chaotic alignment do not
take damage equal to the total rolled; instead, such
creatures only take damage equal to the highest
number rolled on any one of the damage dice, or
half that much on a success.
Creatures that are not of lawful or chaotic
alignment (such as neutral or unaligned creatures)
have resistance against all damage from this spell.
Immediately after you roll dice for the damage of
this spell, you count the total number of those
damage dice that roll an even number. That total
determines the type of the damage, as follows:

Page 80
At Higher Levels. You can cast this spell using a
5th level or higher spell slot. It does an extra 1d8
damage for every spell slot above 4th.


Unknown Spell 202
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S, M (a strand of copper wire
wrapped around a loadstone)
Duration:  Until discharged
You imbue an inanimate object you touch with an
electrical charge. The first creature besides you who
touches the object must make a Dexterity saving
throw or take 3d10 lightning damage on a failed
save, or half as much on a success. Once the charge
is expended, the spell ends. Once you have cast this
spell, you must complete a short rest before you can
cast it again.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, the lightning
damage increases by 1d10 for every slot level above
2nd.


Unknown Spell 203
Casting Time:  1 minute
Range: Self (10 feet)
Components:  V, S, M (a fire source the size of a
torch, some yew wood, and a ruby worth 500gp
which is consumed by the spell)
Duration:  12 hours
You summon a large chariot and two horses made
of flame in an empty space within range. You and
up to seven Medium sized creatures can fit into the
chariot. Anyone other than yourself and your
designated passengers takes 2d4 fire damage per
round if it enters the chariot. The horses only
respond to your spoken commands.
The chariot and horses each have AC 20 and 40
hp and are immune to fire damage and vulnerable
to cold damage. When pulled by the fiery horses,
the chariot has a flying speed of 60 feet. The chariot and the horses can be banished back to their home
plane of fire by you at any time.


Unknown Spell 204
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S, M (a corpse)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You touch a zombie or skeleton you control and it
bursts into flames. After a few seconds, the zombie
or skeleton is a roaring bonfire. For the duration,
the zombie or skeleton is immune to fire and does
an extra 2d6 fire damage with its melee attacks.
Until the spell ends, during each of your turns, you
can use an action to cause the zombie or skeleton to
explode. Every creature within 10 feet of the
exploding zombie or skeleton when you do so must
make a Dexterity saving throw. Creatures take 6d6
fire damage on a failed saving throw, or half as
much damage on a successful one.


Unknown Spell 205
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 50 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
The air around you grows deathly cold. You can see
your breath and a thin layer of frost forms on any
surface you touch. For the duration of the spell you
can use a bonus action to have this aura of cold
lance out and attack a creature in range. Make a
ranged spell attack, if you hit the creature damage
equal to 1d4 + your spellcasting ability modifer.


Unknown Spell 206
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 50 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a knuckle bone)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute

Page 81
Choose one undead creature within 50 feet. For the
duration, whenever the target hits with a melee
attack, that attack inflicts an extra 1d8 cold damage.


Unknown Spell 207
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 5 feet
Components:  V, M (a weapon)
Duration:  1 round
As part of the action used to cast this spell, you
must make a melee attack with a weapon against a
target within range, otherwise the spell fails. On a
hit, the target suffers the attack's normal effects and
takes an additional 1d6 cold damage as it is
enveloped in a crust of frost until the start of your
next turn. If the target makes an attack roll before
then, it immediately takes an additional cold
damage equal to 1d6 + your spellcasting ability
modifier, and the spell ends.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the initial extra
damage dealt by the attack increases by 1d6 for each
slot level above 1st.


Unknown Spell 208
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 90 feet
Components:  V
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You choose to envelop a target within range with a
swirling frost. The target takes 7d6 cold damage,
and is covered by a chilling frost for the duration.
The target must make a Dexterity saving throw. On
a success, it only takes half the cold damage, and
the spell ends.
However, if the target fails the saving throw, it
must continue to make Dexterity saving throws at
the beginning of each of its turns or take 3d6 cold
damage. On a successful save, the spell ends. A
target reduced to 0 hit points by this spell becomes
a frozen statue. At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 6th level or higher, the amount of
initial and ongoing cold damage increases by 1d6 for
each slot level above 5th.


Unknown Spell 209
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self
Components:  V, S, M (a bone chip)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You create a weightless 7-foot scythe. As part of the
action of casting this spell, and as an action on each
of your turns for the duration, you can make a
melee spell attack. If the target is undead, you
inflict force damage equal to 4d6 + your spellcasting
ability modifier on a hit, otherwise if you hit you
inflict magical slashing damage equal to 2d6 + your
spellcasting ability modifier. Undead hit by the
scythe must also make a successful Strength save or
be hurled 20 feet away from the wielder.


Unknown Spell 210
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 90 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a handkerchief with a knot
tied in its center)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You conjure a pair of spectral hands that begin to
choke a humanoid you can see within range. The
hands remain attached to the victim for the
duration. At the beginning of each of the target’s
turns, it must make a Constitution saving throw.
On a failed save, the target takes 1d10 bludgeoning
damage, and has disadvantage on attack rolls until
the end of its next turn. On a successful save, the
target is unaffected that round, but the hands
remain attached.
For the duration, as a bonus action on each of
your turns, you can force the target to make a new
Constitution saving throw or suffer the bludgeoning
damage and disadvantage on attack rolls until the

Page 82
end of its next turn. The spell ends if the creature
dies or loses consciousness.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, the damage
increases by 1d10 for each slot level above 2nd.
“Choking hands : an ideal spell for when a
minion has failed you for the last time.”


Unknown Spell 211
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S, M (two grains of sand and a
rose petal)
Duration:  1 minute
You alter the luck of a creature you touch. The
creature gains three d20 luck dice to use before the
duration expires. The creature can roll a luck die
after rolling a d20 for an attack roll, ability check, or
saving throw, but before the Dungeon Master says
whether the result was successful or not; the
creature can choose which result to use. Only one
luck die can be used per attack roll, ability check, or
saving throw.


Unknown Spell 212
Casting Time:  1 action
Components:  V, S
Range: Self
Duration:  Instantaneous
While casting this spell you name one creature you
know firsthand. You begin to slowly spin, as the
spell takes hold you spin faster and faster, becoming
a blur. When the spell ends you stop, with your
extended arm pointed directly toward that creature.
You also get a sense of the target’s physical and
emotional wellbeing (whether it isinjured, sleepy,
hungry, etc.). If the target is on a different plane,
the spell fails.  If the target is unwilling to be located, it can
make a Wisdom saving throw. On success, the spell
fails.


Unknown Spell 213
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 25-foot radius circle
Components:  V, S, M (salt)
Duration:  24 hours
The caster sprinkles salt in a circle around a
campfire, tent, or some other central object. Natural
predators and curious passer-byes are magically
discouraged from looking too closely at the area
enclosed by the circle.
Sights, sounds and smells inside the circle are
masked and muted, and anyone just passing by is
unlikely to even notice your camp. Any Wisdom
(Perception) checks to find you are made with
disadvantage.
This spell does not protect against any form of
magical detection.


Unknown Spell 214
Casting Time: 1 reaction
Range: 5 feet
Components: V, M (a weapon)
Duration: 1 round
Your touch hurts and confuses your opponent,
allowing you to psychically track its panic and anger
to prevent its escape.
Make a melee spell attack against a creature
within range. On a hit, the target takes 2d10 psychic
damage, and you gain the following benefits until
the end of your next turn:
 You and friendly creatures within 5 feet of you
ignore half cover and threequarters cover when
attacking the target creature.
 The target can't become hidden from you, and if
it's invisible, it gains no benefits from this
condition against you.

Page 83
 The
target provokes opportunity
attacks from you even if it takes the Disengage
action before leaving your reach.
 You gain advantage on all Wisdom checks to
find the target or discern information about it.
 If you and the target share a language, you can
communicate telepathically with it as long as it
is within 30 feet.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, the psychic
damage inflicted increases by 1d10 for each slot level
above 2nd.


Unknown Spell 215
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 hour
You touch a target and grant it extraordinary focus
for the duration. The target has advantage on Wisdom and Intelligence saving
throws against spells.
In addition, the target does
not have disadvantage on
Wisdom (Perception) checks
in areas that are lightly
obscured, or on attack
rolls against creatures
that are heavily
obscured.


Unknown Spell 216
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1
minute
Your hands turn into featureless
black claws. You are considered
proficient with claws for the duration of the
spell. The claws have the light property and a reach
of 10 feet. On a successful hit the claws inflict 1d6
plus your spellcasting ability modifier cold damage.
While this spell is in effect you cannot cast spells
with somatic components or hold anything in your
hands.


Unknown Spell 217
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self
Components:  V, S, M (an umber hulk claw)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 hour
Your fingers and nails transform into diamond-hard
claws. The skin on your hands and forearms
thickens and turns into a hardened shell. For the
duration, you gain a burrowing speed of 30 feet, a
+4 bonus to your AC, and advantage on Strength
checks and Strength saving throws. You can also use
an action on each of your turns to make two melee

Page 84
spell attacks with a reach of 10 feet, inflicting 1d8 + 4
magical slashing damage when one hits.


Unknown Spell 218
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  S, M (A mirror)
Duration:  Instantaneous
A creature you touch is cleansed of all dirt and
grime. The target regains 1 hit point, and for 1 hour
the symptoms of any disease afflicting the target are
suppressed. In addition, the target has advantage on
any Charisma (Deception or Persuasion) checks
against non-hostile humanoids made in the next 10
minutes.


Unknown Spell 219
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self
Components:  V, S
Duration:  1 round
A transparent cloak wraps around you, warding you
from your enemies. For the duration, you have
resistance to damage from melee spell attacks.


Unknown Spell 220
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self (30-foot radius)
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 hour
When you cast this spell, a glittering mantle of
courage settles upon your allies. All creatures you
select within range have advantage on saving
throws against being frightened for the duration.


Unknown Spell 221
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self Components:  V, S, M (a khyber dragonshard worth
at least 50 gp and small enough to be held in one
hand)
Duration:  10 days
When you cast this spell, you must already have
taken a form other than your own (by polymorph,
shapechanging, or another supernatural means),
and you must have been in the form for at least 8
hours, otherwise this spell fails. Until this spell
ends, as long as you bear the dragonshard you
enchant in the casting of this spell on your person,
no divination spell of 8th-level or lower can discern
any information that would reveal that your current
form to be a disguise. In addition, your alternate
form deceives even truesight,  and creatures with
truesight perceive your current form as being your
original one.
“how this most secret of our spells came to be in a
spellbook previously unknown to the Lords of Dust is a
mystery. Even more intriguing , the tome seems to have
found its way to the Library of Ashtakala from some
distant, alien realm beyond the thirteen planes ...
“It is very interesting that a copy of this grimoire seems
to have found its way to Eberron, which is locked away
from the rest of the multiverse. Travel there requires a
unique and specific means of traversing the Deep
Ethereal, one better not discussed in these pages.
“Given what my research has turned up about the
name Sul Khatesh, and the rakhasa mage Hektula,
this note is also a cause for grave concern.”

Page 85


Unknown Spell 222
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 120 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You create a heavily obscured 15-foot radius sphere
of yellow-green fog centered on a point you can see
within range. The fog spreads around corners but is
stationary and lasts the duration unless dispersed
by a strong wind (at least 20 miles per hour), which
ends the spell after 1 round .
When a creature first enters the cloud or starts its
turn there, that creature must make a Constitution
saving throw or take 4d6 poison damage or half as
much on a successful save. Creatures are affected
even if they hold their breath or don’t need to
breathe.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 5th or higher level, the poison damage
increases by 1d6 and the radius increases by 5 feet
for each slot level above 4th.


Unknown Spell 223
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 100-foot radius, centered on caster
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 hour
At your command, clouds gather and there is a
downpour of heavy rain. Everything within a 100-
foot tall, 100-foot wide cylinder centered on you is
lightly obscured, and creatures have disadvantage
on Wisdom (Perception) checks to perceive things
within the area, which becomes difficult terrain. All
open flames within the area are extinguished.
“This spell also tends to make red
dragons very miserable.”


Unknown Spell 224
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Up to 4 hours
When you cast this spell, you select up to six
creatures within 5 feet of you. Small puffs of cloud
attach themselves to the feet of each one, and the
creature gains a flying speed of 60 feet for the
duration. This spell only works outdoors.
A creature can end the effect by shaking the
cloud puffs off its feet. The spellcaster can dismiss
the spell as an action, but only for all creatures at
once.


Unknown Spell 225
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 5 feet
Components:  V, M (a weapon)
Duration:  1 round
As part of the action used to cast this spell, you
must make a melee attack with a weapon against
one creature within the spell’s range, otherwise the
spell fails. On a hit, the target suffers the attack’s
normal effects, and its speed is reduced by half until
the end of your next turn. Whether or not the
attack hits, your weapon strikes the ground,
opening up a shallow bog which hinders movement.
A 15-foot cube that includes the space occupied by
the target of your attack becomes difficult terrain
until the end of your next turn.
Whenever a creature ends its turn within difficult
terrain created by this spell, it must make a
Strength saving throw. Creatures wearing medium
or heavy armor have disadvantage on this save. On
a failure, until the end of the creature's next turn its
speed is reduced by 10 feet and it cannot take
reactions or bonus actions. On a success, the
creature's speed is reduced by 10 feet until the end
of its next turn, but it suffers no other effects.

Page 86


Unknown Spell 226
Casting Time:  1 action
Components:  V, S, M (a heart that has been set on
fire)
Range: 60 feet
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
Spectral hands grab the heart of one humanoid you
choose, and start to squeeze. The victim must make
a Constitution saving throw. On a successful save,
the victim takes 1d12 necrotic damage and the spell
ends.
On a failed save, the victim is paralyzed for the
duration and takes 1d12 necrotic damage at the start
of each of their turns. At the end of every round, the
victim can make another Constitution saving throw.
If it succeeds on the saving throw, the spell ends.
If the victim dies during this spell, its smoking
heart appears in your hand.
“Despite the name, clutch of  Orcus is not the
direct creation of Orcus, the Demon Prince of
Undead. The first confirmed caster was Orcus’s
minion Zhengyi, the Witch-King of Vaasa. After
unifying the untamed tundra-lands northeast of
the Moonsea into his kingdom, this powerful
warlock raised the Castle Perilous and
summoned the region's monsters to serve him.
The clutch of Orcus  was one of many vile spells
Zhengyi employed in repeated attacks on the
neighboring nation of Damara.”


Unknown Spell 227
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S, M (a burning coal and a
diamond worth at least 25 gp)
Duration:  1 year
You fuse a diamond and a burning coal into one
stone called a coalstone. The coalstone radiates dim light out to 5 feet, and is always hot. Holding the
coalstone without protection heals 1 point of fire
damage every round. Placing the coalstone in
flammable liquid or material will cause it to
instantly ignite. Placing the coalstone in 5 gallons or
less of water will make the water boil after 1 round.
The coalstone stays lit for 1 year, then it goes out.
You may only have one coalstone active at a time.


Unknown Spell 228
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self
Components:  V, S, M (a chain mail
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
A number of spinning blades equal to your
spellcasting ability modifier begin to spin around
you. You gain a bonus to your AC equal to your
spellcasting ability modifier. You can use your
reaction to launch one of these blades at a creature
that has just missed you in melee combat. Make a
melee spell attack. If you hit the blade does 2d6
force plus your spellcasting ability modifier damage.
Launching the blade lowers the AC bonus provided
by this spell by one. The spell ends once you have
launched all the blades or the duration expires.


Unknown Spell 229
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  1 round
A spectral cobra appears above you and spits a
stream poison at the eyes of a creature you can see
within range. Make a ranged spell attack. On a hit,
the creature takes 4d10 poison damage, and it must
make a Constitution saving throw. On a failed save,
the creature is blinded and poisoned until the end
of its next turn. On a successful save, the creature
takes the full damage, but isn’t blinded or poisoned.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 4th level or higher, the damage

Page 87
increases by 1d10 for each slot level above 3rd.


Unknown Spell 230
Casting Time:  1 minute
Components:  V, S, M (an animal tongue)
Range: Touch
Duration:  1 day
While casting this spell, you pick one specific piece
of information known to both you and the target. If
the target fails a Wisdom saving throw, it may not
communicate this secret to anyone else for one day.
Any form of communication, whether written,
verbal, or mental, is blocked.


Unknown Spell 231
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a source of fire within
range)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 10 minutes, or
instantaneous
Choose a fire within the spell’s range that has a
maximum area of a 20-foot cube. This fire is
transformed into magical cold fire for the duration,
with blue-tinged flames. The affected area deals 1d6
cold damage to any creature that starts its turn
within the cube.
You can alternatively target a fire elemental or a
creature that has vulnerability to cold damage. In
this case, the spell’s effect is instantaneous, and the
target must make a Constitution saving throw. The
target takes 2d10 cold damage on a failed save, or
half as much damage on a successful one.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the spell scales in
two different ways. If you cast the spell to affect a
fire, the volume increases by 10 cubic feet and the
cold damage increases by 1d6 for each slot level
above 1st. However, if you targeted a creature, the
cold damage increases by 1d10 for each slot level
above 1st.


Unknown Spell 232
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 5 feet
Components: V, M (a weapon)
Duration: 1 round
As part of the action used to cast this spell, you
must make a melee attack with a weapon against
one creature within the spell's range, otherwise the
spell fails. You gain a bonus on this attack roll equal
to the number of your allies you can see within 10
feet of the target (maximum 5). If the attack hits, it
deals an extra 3d6 psychic damage to the target, and
the target must make a Wisdom saving throw. On a
failed save, until the end of its next turn it cannot
take reactions, and it has disadvantage on attack
rolls against you and your allies.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 4th level or higher, the extra psychic
damage increases by 1d6 for each slot level above
3rd.


Unknown Spell 233
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 90 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Instantaneous
When you cast this spell, a blazing comet plummets
to the ground at a point you choose within range.
Once the comet touches the ground it explodes
with a thunderous roar. Each creature within 20 feet
of the exploding comet must make a Dexterity
saving throw. On a failed save, the creature takes
5d6 bludgeoning and 5d6 thunder damage, and is
pushed 10 feet back and knocked prone. On a
successful save, the creature takes half the damage
and isn’t pushed or knocked prone.
In addition, the comet’s impact area is filled with
rubble and is considered difficult terrain. The sound
of the impact can be heard up to 1 mile away (or
farther with a successful Wisdom (Perception)
check as determined by your DM).

Page 88
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 7th level or higher, the bludgeoning
and thunder damage both increase by 1d6 for each
slot level above 6th.


Unknown Spell 234
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  8 hours
Choose yourself and up to three other creatures
within range. The chosen creatures gain advantage
on all saving throws against effects that cause
exhaustion, fear, the poisoned condition, or disease,
they are considered naturally adapted to both hot
and cold climates. and they don’t require food,
drink, or rest for the duration.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 4th level or higher, you can affect one
additional creature for each slot level above 3rd.


Unknown Spell 235
Casting Time:  1 action
Components:  V
Range: 60 feet
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 hour
You target a Medium or smaller beast within range
and force it to make a Wisdom saving throw. The
beast you target must be CR 3 or less. If the beast
fails its save then it is charmed by you.
So long as the beast is charmed, you have a
telepathic link with it and can issue it simple
commands. If the beast receives no commands from
you, it waits and defends itself if attacked.
Any time the beast takes damage, it is allowed a
new Wisdom saving throw. If the save is successful,
the spell ends.


Unknown Spell 236
Casting Time:  1 action  Range: Self
Components:  V, M (a stick of incense, which is
consumed by the spell)
Duration:  1 minute
You maintain a calm mind in the face of danger. For
the duration, you have advantage on Constitution
saving throws to maintain your concentration.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, the duration
increases by 1 minute for each slot level above 2nd.


Unknown Spell 237
Casting Time:  Special
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S, M (up to 2 missiles)
Duration:  Instantaneous
You can channel a spell into an arrow or other
missile for later use. Upon casting conduit, you can
cast a spell of 1st through 4th level into the missile
by touching the missile as the spell is cast. You
expend a spell slot, but none of the spell’s effects
occur. Instead, the spell transfers into that missile
for later use. The spell imbued into the missile must
have a maximum casting time of 1 action, and it
must have an area of effect.
Any creature thereafter can make a ranged attack
using the missile, and the spell is cast when the
missile strikes an object. The spell is cast using your
spellcasting ability, and it is centered on the object
that the missile strikes.
When you create a conduit in this way, it must be
used within 8 hours. After that time, its magic fades
and is wasted. You can have a limited number of
conduits at the same time. The number equals your
Intelligence modifier.


Unknown Spell 238
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 120 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a wax doll)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute

Page 89
You select a creature you can see within range, and
it bursts into flame. The target must make a
Constitution saving throw at the beginning of each
of its turns for the duration. The target takes 2d8
fire damage on a failed save, or half as much
damage on a successful one. All unattended objects
within 10 feet of the target catch on fire from the
intense heat.
In addition, if a creature ends its turn within 10
feet of the target, it must make a Dexterity saving
throw, taking 2d6 fire damage on a failed save, or
half as much damage on a successful one.
If the target dies while under the effects of this
spell, it is consumed by
fire and turns into a
fire elemental under
the spellcaster’s
control, which requires
concentration and lasts
for up to 1 minute. The
fire elemental
disintegrates when the
spell ends.


Unknown Spell 239
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  1 minute
You cause iron caltrops
to appear in a 5-foot square area within range,
remaining until the spell ends. Any creature that
moves into the spell’s area must choose to either
treat that area as difficult terrain or make a
Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, the
creature stops moving and takes 1 piercing damage,
and its speed is reduced by 10 feet until the end of
its next turn.


Unknown Spell 240
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 90 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 hour
You summon a celestial in the form of either a
young white dragon  or a young brass dragon . It
appears in an unoccupied space that you can see
within range. The celestial functions in all ways as a
dragon of the type you select. The dragon
disappears when it drops to 0 hit points, or the spell
ends.
The dragon is
friendly to you and
your allies for the
duration. The dragon
acts on its own
initiative each turn but
obeys your verbal
commands if they do
not violate its
alignment. If you do
not give the dragon
any commands, it
defends itself but takes
no other actions.


Unknown Spell 241
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 90 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 hour
You summon a celestial in the form of a  young
remorhaz . It appears in an unoccupied space that
you can see within range. The celestial functions in
all ways as a remorhaz. The remorhaz disappears
when it drops to 0 hit points, or the spell ends.
The remorhaz is friendly to you and your allies for
the duration. The remorhaz acts on its own

Page 90
initiative each turn, but obeys your verbal
commands if they do not violate its alignment. If
you do not give the remorhaz any commands, it
defends itself, but takes no other actions.


Unknown Spell 242
Casting Time:  1 bonus action
Range: Self
Components:  V, M (a weapon)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
The next time you hit a creature with a weapon
attack before this spell ends, you drive your foe to
the ground. The attack deals an extra 2d6 psychic
damage to the target, and the target must make
Dexterity saving throw. If they fail the save, the
target falls prone. Until the start of your next turn,
if the target stands up from being prone, you may
use your reaction to make one melee attack against
the target.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, the extra damage
increases by 1d6 for each slot level above 2nd.


Unknown Spell 243
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You sweep your hands through the air, devouring
the fleeting life force of those on the edge of death.
As part of the action used to cast this spell, you can
choose one creature within range that has half its
hit point maximum or less and force it to make a
Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, the
creature takes 2d10 necrotic damage, and you have
advantage on Strength ability checks and saving
throws until the end of your next turn. In addition,
you gain temporary hit points equal to the necrotic
damage inflicted.
On a successful save, the creature takes half
damage, and you don't gain advantage on Strength ability checks or saving throws, nor do you gain any
temporary hit points.
Until the spell ends, once during each of your
turns you can use your action to force another
creature with half its hit point maximum or less to
make the Constitution saving throw against the
same effects. For the duration, you also know when
any creature within range has been reduced to half
its hit point maximum or less.


Unknown Spell 244
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: touch
Components:  V, S
Duration:  7 days
This spell works like contagion, except that you may
touch a number of target equal to your spellcasting
ability modifier. Make one melee spell attack and
compare the result against all your target’s AC.


Unknown Spell 245
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 10-foot radius, centered on you
Components:  V, S, M (a vial of mercury)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 hour
You control the ambient temperature. You can raise
or lower the temperature by 10 degrees every round
for the duration of the spell.
“I once had to use this spell to walk
through an arctic tundra wearing naught
but a loincloth. Well, I didn’t have to… but
that be another tale entirely!”


Unknown Spell 246
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 90 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a metal ring)
Duration:  1 round

Page 91
You project your thoughts into another creature’s
mind so completely that for a moment it takes on
your intentions instead of its own. As an action, you
target a creature within range that you can see or
which has communicated with you since the
beginning of your last turn. The target must make
an Intelligence saving throw. On a failed save, the
target is charmed by you until the end of its next
turn, and during that turn, you choose the target’s
movement and its action. On a successful save, the
target is unaffected.


Unknown Spell 247
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 300 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a fresh corpse or animated
zombie)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 10 minutes
You select a fresh corpse (less than an hour old)
within range and gain one of its senses. For
example, you could cast the spell on a recently slain
monster and gain sight through its eyes. The effect
is stationary unless you move the corpse (or its
sensory organs). You do not benefit from any
special senses the corpse possessed in life.
While you use the senses of the corpse, your own
equivalent sensory organ is occupied. You can end
the spell at any time.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the range
increases by 100 feet and the duration increases by
10 minutes for each slot level above 1st.


Unknown Spell 248
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S, M (a rag or piece of cloth taken
from a corpse)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
This spell transforms the face of a friendly creature
you touch into the horrifying visage of a rotting corpse. Any creature with a challenge rating of 1 or
lower viewing it must make a Wisdom saving
throw. On a failed save, the creature is frightened
for the duration. The frightened creature can make
another Wisdom saving throw at the end of each of
its turns. On a successful save, the spell ends.


Unknown Spell 249
Casting Time: 1 reaction, which you take when a
willing ally within range rolls a Charisma check and
you dislike the result
Range: 30 feet
Components: V
Duration: Instantaneous
You can make a Charisma check and use your result
in place of the Charisma check that triggered this
spell. Regardless of your normal proficiencies, you
make this roll with Expertise, meaning you add
twice your proficiency bonus to this roll.


Unknown Spell 250
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self
Components:  V, S, M (a spider’s web, some pitch,
and a tentacle)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 10 minutes
You reach out and touch the darkness between the
stars, absorbing its abyssal essence into your body.
Your form becomes wrapped in shadows, and
tentacles burst from your shoulders and spine. You
cannot be identified, except by the spell true seeing ,
or a similar magical effect.
You gain a +4 bonus to AC and for the duration
you are immune to falling damage and can walk on
water and other liquids (as if you were the subject
of a water walk  spell). As a bonus action on each of
your turns for the duration, you can order your
tentacles to attack a target within 10 feet. Make a
melee spell attack. On a hit, the target takes 4d6
acid damage.

Page 92


Unknown Spell 251
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: Self
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
From thought you create matter, equipping yourself
with a simple implement you need. You summon
one piece of adventuring gear worth 2 gp or less
which you can hold in one hand, and which must
weigh less than 10 pounds.
If the item is more than 10 feet away from you at
the end of your turn, the spell ends. This object may
simulate the effects of a tool which requires
proficiency, but it can only be used to make one
ability check, for a task that takes 1 round or less,
after which time the spell ends. Anyone who holds
the item or examines it closely can tell it is not real.
When the spell ends, the item disappears.


Unknown Spell 252
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self (one vessel on your person)
Components:  V, S, M (a small bottle or other
container that can hold a draught of water)
Duration:  Instantaneous
You use some combination of scavenged
substances, focused meditation, and magic to
transform the water in a container you have on your
person into one dose of improvised poison. This
dose can be applied to one weapon, up to three
pieces of ammunition, or up to three separate
portions of food or drink. Once applied, the poison
retains potency until someone must roll a saving
throw against it, or for 1 minute, after which point it
dries or dissolves. If a creature is struck with the
poisoned weapon or ammunition, or if it ingests the
poisoned food or drink, it must make a Constitution
save or be poisoned for 1 minute and take 1d8
poison damage, or 2d8 if the poison is ingested).
Creatures that succeed on their save take half
damage, but suffer no other effects.  A poison you create can only be used by you,
and has no value if you try to sell it. If you cast this
spell again, any doses of poison you have previously
created with this spell instantly become water
again. Otherwise, poison doses created with this
spell retain their potency until the next time you
finish a long rest, at which point they return to
being water.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell
using a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, you create
one additional dose of poison for every two levels
above 1st. When you cast this spell using a spell slot
of 4th level or higher, the poison gains an extra
effect: if a creature fails the saving throw by 5 or
more, its Constitution score is reduced by 1d4 until
the creature finishes a long rest or its ability score is
restored by magic.


Unknown Spell 253
Casting Time:  10 minutes
Range: 10 feet
Components:  S, M (the corpse of a blackbird and
one black onyx stone worth 250 gp)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 24 hours
You raise one corpse of a Medium or Small
humanoid as a revenant  under your temporary
influence. (The DM has game statistics for
revenants).
Once raised, the revenant is friendly to you and
your companions for the duration. It obeys any
verbal commands that you issue to it. The revenant
is under your control for 24 hours, after which time
it stops obeying any command you have given it.
When you cast this spell, you must choose one
unfriendly creature within 1 mile of you on which
you wish to seek revenge, and against whom the
revenant also swears vengeance (though only for
the duration). If you do not choose a target for
vengeance, the revenant ceases to be under your
control.
If you don't issue any commands to the revenant,
it attacks the subject of its sworn vengeance,
moving toward that creature if it can, and defends

Page 93
itself from hostile creatures. If you cast this spell
while you already have a revenant under your
control from a prior casting of this spell, the
previous spell ends and the existing revenant leaves
your service as described above.
The revenant will not seek revenge against you
for animating it with this spell. Once this spell ends,
however, if you wronged it during its life, or if you
stirred its vengeance against you by any of the
deeds you committed or forced it to commit during
its service to you, it may make you a target for its
vengeance.
If the revenant has vengeance in its heart towards
another creature, it will seek revenge against it once
your control ends. If the revenant does not burn
with the need for vengeance, it becomes a dead
corpse once more.
Once a corpse has been the subject of this spell, it
cannot be transformed into a revenant again by this
spell for 100 years.
“’Tis a very foolish thing to turn a
creature ye just killed into a revenant!”


Unknown Spell 254
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  3 rounds
You point at a target within range, and begin to
turn its body moisture into ice.
The target makes a Constitution saving throw. If
the creature fails, at the beginning of its next turn,
the target takes cold damage equal to 1d6 + your
spellcasting ability modifier. The creature takes cold
damage at the beginning of its next two turns as
well, equal to 2d6 + your spellcasting ability
modifier at the beginning of its second turn after
the spell is cast, and 3d6 + your spellcasting
ability modifier at the beginning of its third.
If the creature succeeds on its saving throw, it
still takes damage at the start of its next three turns, but the damage is halved.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, the amount of cold
damage taken at the start of each turn increases by
1d6 for each slot level above 2nd.


Unknown Spell 255
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 90 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You summon a number of swarms of poisonous
snakes equal to your spellcasting ability modifier.
These swarms have maximum hit points. While you
remain within 100 feet of the swarms, you may use a
bonus action to command one swarm to move up to
30 feet or attack an adjacent creature.
You summon each swarm into a space of your
choice within range. You can summon a swarm in
the same space as a creature, and the swarm will
immediately attack. The swarms will not move
unless you command them to move, but will attack
creatures within their reach with-out prompting.
The swarms act on initiative 1, and lose all
initiative ties.

Page 94


Unknown Spell 256
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 90 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a vial of vampire blood)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You choose one target with range, which must
make a Constitution saving throw. On a failure,
blood fills its eyes, seeps from its pores, and gushes
from its mouth and ears, dealing 10d8 necrotic
damage to the creature and blinding it for the
duration. On a success, a creature takes half as
much damage but suffers no other effects. A target
blinded by this spell can repeat the Constitution
saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending
the spell on a success. This spell has no effects on
constructs, elementals, or undead, except for
vampires (including both vampire spawn and
vampire lords). Vampires make the initial
Constitution save versus this spell with
disadvantage.


Unknown Spell 257
Casting Time:  1 reaction, which you take in
response to hitting a target with a melee weapon
attack
Range: Self
Components:  V
Duration:  1 round
When you cast this spell, it takes effect after you hit
with the triggering attack but before you roll
damage. Whenever you hit with a melee attack
before the end of your next turn (including on the
triggering attack), your weapon inflicts an extra die
of its normal damage, and you score a critical hit on
a roll of 19 or 20.
For example, if you rolled a 19 to hit an enemy
with a longsword, you could cast critical strike  as a
reaction, and make the attack a critical hit. You
would then roll an amount of slashing damage
equal to 4d8 + your Strength modifier (the spell
increases longsword damage from 1d8 to 2d8, and that is doubled again due to the critical hit).
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, the weapon
damage increases by 1 die for every two slot levels
above 1st.


Unknown Spell 258
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self (10-foot radius)
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
When you cast this spell, the magnificence of your
deity emanates from you in an aura that makes you
appear larger than life and bolsters nearby allies.
For the duration, any creature friendly to you
(including you) gains immunity to being frightened
and advantage on all attack rolls, ability checks, and
saving throws while it is within 10 feet of you. If a
creature friendly to you is within 10 feet of you
when you first cast the spell, it also gains 10
temporary hit points.
The aura is centered on you, but if you move
more than half your speed in a single turn, the spell
ends early.


Unknown Spell 259
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  1 round
Blazing light coalesces over your ally to form a
crown of radiance that sears surrounding foes.
Choose an ally you can see within range. Every
hostile creature within 5 feet of that ally must make
a Dexterity saving throw. A creature takes 4d6
radiant damage on a failed save, or half as much
damage on a successful one.
In addition, the chosen ally gains temporary hit
points equal to 5 + your spellcasting ability
modifier, and it is considered proficient with all
saving throws until the end of its next turn.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using

Page 95
a spell slot of 5th level or higher, the damage
increases by 1d6 for each slot level above 4th.


Unknown Spell 260
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 120 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a severed hand)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
Dark clouds swirl above your enemies, creating a
massive fist. Make a ranged spell attack against an
opponent within range. If you hit, the target takes
10d6 bludgeoning damage. For the duration, you
may use a bonus action to make another ranged
spell attack against a target within range. If you hit,
they take 10d6 bludgeoning damage.


Unknown Spell 261
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Instantaneous
You touch any metal object up to 30 cubic feet in
volume and turn it into a fragile crystalline
substance that shatters easily upon impact. You can
transform any metal object or even a creature made
of metal such as an iron golem.
If you target an item worn or carried by another
creature, or if you target a creature made of metal,
you must make a successful melee spell attack
against the target. If the target object is magical,
your attack is made with disadvantage. On a hit, the
target object or creature is affected by the spell.
Artifacts are not affected by this spell.
Once transformed, the object or creature has AC
10 and 1 hit point.


Unknown Spell 262
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: Touch Components: V, S, M (one melee weapon of up to
10 ranged weapons)
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
Your chosen weapon leaves trails of thick black
smoke. Wounds dealt by this weapon cannot be
healed by any means until the spell ends. If a
creature is targeted by one of the following spells, it
becomes immune to this spell’s effects for 10
minutes: remove curse , lesser restoration, greater
restoration,  or any spell of 6th-level or higher that
causes a creature to regain hit points.


Unknown Spell 263
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
When you cast this spell, you bestow a minor curse
on a creature you can see within range. That
creature must make a successful Wisdom saving
throw, or suffer your choice of one of the following
effects for the duration:
 The target has disadvantage on ability checks
and saving throws with an ability of your choice.
 The target has disadvantage on attack rolls
against you for the spell’s duration.
 Your attacks and spells deal an extra 1d8
necrotic damage to the target.


Unknown Spell 264
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S, M (an iron nail through a piece
of leather)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You make a creature highly susceptible to attacks.
Choose a creature that you can see within range;
that creature must make a Wisdom saving throw.
On a failed save, all attacks against the target are

Page 96
made with advantage. The affected creature can
make another Wisdom saving throw at the end of
each of its turns. On a successful save, the spell
ends. This effect can’t be dispelled, but a remove
curse negates it.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, the spell’s duration
increases by 1 minute for each slot level above 2nd.


Unknown Spell 265
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S, M (a small knife or razor blade)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 10 minutes
You infuse your target with necromantic energy
that prevents the body from healing. The target
must make a Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save
it cannot regain hit points for the duration, and it
takes 1 point of necrotic damage at the start of each
of its turns until the spell ends.
“Well worth considering when ye know
there will be enemy clerics about.”


Unknown Spell 266
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 150 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Instantaneous
You launch a bolt that shreds your enemy’s mind.
Make a ranged attack roll. On a hit, you inflict 8d10
psychic damage and the target must make a
Charisma saving throw. On a failure, the next time
it rolls 20 on a d20 roll, the roll becomes a 1 instead.


Unknown Spell 267
Casting Time:  1 bonus action Range: 90 feet
Components:  V
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You create a powerful barrier of silver force that
protects your weapons and the arms that bear them.
For the duration, you gain the following benefits:
 You can use your spellcasting ability instead of
Strength for the attack and damage rolls of
melee attacks using one-handed weapons that
inflict piercing or slashing damage.
 You cannot be forced to drop a one-handed
weapon you are holding.
 Each time you hit with a melee attack using a
one-handed weapon that inflicts piercing or
slashing damage, you inflict an additional 1d4
force damage.
 While you have a light or simple melee weapon
in each hand, you gain a +1 bonus to AC.
 Whenever you inflict piercing or slashing
damage on a creature more than once during
your turn, you gain advantage on saving throws
against spells cast by that creature until the start
of your next turn.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 5th level or higher, you can maintain
your concentration on the spell for up to 1 hour.
“Any mage worth the name should know their
way around a blade or staff well enough to defend
themselves without their spells. I favor the
dagger myself, so this spell is one I use often.
“Daggerspell stance  was first researched by the
Daggerspell Guardians, an order seeking to
preserve the work of good folk and balance the
concerns of civilized communities against the
sanctity of nature.
“Sources disagree one whether the Daggerspell
Guardians have a good relationship with that
other, more famous faction with very similar
goals, the Emerald Enclave.”

Page 97


Unknown Spell 268
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: 60 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a glove)
Duration: 1 minute
You cause a small hovering fist made of fire to
appear at a point you can see within range, which
lasts for the duration or until you cast this spell
again. When you cast this spell, you can make a
melee spell attack against a creature or object
within 5 feet of the fist. On a hit, the target takes
fire damage equal to 2d8 + your spellcasting ability
modifier. If the fist hits an unattended flammable
object, the target catches on fire, taking 1d8 fire
damage at the start of each of your turns for the
duration.
As a bonus action on each of your turns, you can
move the fist up to 20 feet and repeat the attack as
described above.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 6th level or higher, the fire damage
from the fist’s attack increases by 1d8 for every two
slot levels above 4th.


Unknown Spell 269
Casting Time:  1 round
Range: Self (20 foot radius)
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Instantaneous
You dance and cavort wildly, throwing off waves of
chaotic lightning before energy explodes out of you.
After a full round of dancing every creature within
range must make a Dexterity saving throw. They
take 3d12 necrotic damage on a failed saving throw,
and half as much on a successful one.


Unknown Spell 270
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self (15-foot radius) Components:  V, S, M (a link of chain from a kyton)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
The link of chain in your hand stretches and grows
barbed spikes to attack a target within range. Make
a melee spell attack. If you hit the target takes 3d6
plus your spellcasting ability modifier piercing
damage.
If you successfully hit your target, you can use
your bonus action to release the chain which wraps
around your opponent. You target must make a
Strength saving throw. If they fail they are grappled
by the chain. A grappled target may make a
Strength (Athletics) or Dexterity (Acrobatics) check
against your spell save DC to escape. If the grappled
character escapes the spell ends.
If you do not release the chain then you may use
your action on your next turn to attack another
target.


Unknown Spell 271
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 120 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You summon one bolt of dark force that
immediately streaks toward a target you choose
within range. Make a ranged spell attack against the
target. On a hit, if the target is a living creature, it
takes 5d8 force damage, and it must make a
Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, the creature
is stunned until the end of its next turn. If a target is
undead, then it doesn’t take the force damage, but
it must make a Wisdom saving throw, or be
stunned until the end of its next turn.
At the start of each of your turns for the duration,
one more bolt of dark force appears. You can use an
action to make a ranged spell attack with the bolt at
a target you can see within range.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 6th level or higher, the force damage
increases by 1d8 for each slot level above 5th.

Page 98


Unknown Spell 272
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch, or 15 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a pinch of ash from a
cremated creature)
Duration:  Instantaneous
Dark blue fire surrounds your body and encircles
the ground on which you stand. As part of the
action used to cast the spell, you can either make a
melee spell attack and touch a
creature as you strike it with
darkfire or you can make a
ranged spell attack against a
creature you can see within 15
feet as rays of darkfire shoot
from your eyes. On a hit, the
creature takes 3d10 necrotic
damage.
At Higher Levels. When
you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 3rd level or
higher, the necrotic
damage increases by
1d10 for each slot level
above 2nd.


Unknown Spell 273
Casting Time:  1 reaction
Range: 60 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Instantaneous
When initiative is rolled, and you
aren’t surprised, you can use a
reaction to
cause a
blinding
flash of
light to
erupt in a
15-foot radius
at a point you can see within range. Each creature caught in the
area must make a Constitution saving throw or
suffer disadvantage on the initiative roll and on
attack rolls until the end of their next turn.
Creatures that don’t rely on eyesight are immune
to this spell.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, the radius of the
effect increases by 5 feet for every slot level above
2nd.


Unknown Spell 274
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self
Components:  V, S, M (a pinch of odoriferous
spice)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 hour
As you finish the spell, an illusion
masks the footprints and scent of
creatures you choose within 30 feet
of you for the duration. Any creature
attempting to track the affected
creatures by scent or sight must make
an Intelligence (Investigation) check
against your spellcasting DC. If the
check fails, the creature loses the trail
and has disadvantage on all further
ability checks to track the affected
creatures for the duration.
At Higher Levels. When you
cast this spell using a spell slot
of 2nd level or
higher, the
duration
increases
by 1 hour
for each
slot level
above 1st.

Page 99


Unknown Spell 275
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 hour
A round transparent shield about 2 feet in diameter
appears on your arm. If you are already using a
shield, this shield hovers about an inch in front of it
and follows its movements. For the duration, if you
are the target of, or included in the area of effect of ,
a spell that allows you to save for half damage, you
take no damage on a successful save. You may cast
this spell as a reaction to making a saving throw
versus a spell for half damage, but it effects will only
last until the beginning of your next turn.


Unknown Spell 276
Casting Time:  1 minute
Range: Touch (one dead body part)
Components:  V, M (one part of a criminal’s corpse,
which must be flexible in some way)
Duration:  Until dispelled
You imbue a body part taken from a criminal’s
corpse—such as a hand, finger or head—with
divinatory powers that cause it to react. Choose one
of the categories of things it can detect and react to
below. When something that falls within the chosen
category or selected subcategories comes within 30
feet of the body part that has become the dead
man’s tell  item, it activates. You can choose one of
the following categories of things to activate the
dead man’s tell  item:
 Alignment.  Choose one of the following
alignments: good, evil, lawful, or chaotic. The
dead man’s tell  item activates when it is within
30 feet of a creature that has such an alignment.
 Consecration/Desecration.  The dead man’s
tell item activates when it is within 30 feet of a
place or object that has been magically consecrated or desecrated (as with the hallow
spell).
 Creature.  Select one or more types of creatures
from the following list: aberrations, beasts,
constructs, dragons, elementals, fey, fiends,
giants, monstrosities, oozes, plants, or undead.
You can also choose one or more races of
humanoids (such as humans or goblins). You
can choose as many or as few of these types as
you like. The dead man’s tell  item activates
when it is within 30 feet of one of the chosen
creature types.
 Disease.  The dead man’s tell  item activates
when it is within 30 feet of an object or creature
that carries a disease with which it can infect
other creatures.
 Magic. Choose magic items, spellcasting,
scrying attempts, or general magical effects. The
dead man’s tell  item activates when it is within
30 feet of one of the chosen effects.
 Poison. The dead man’s tell  item activates when
it is within 30 feet of poison or poisonous
creatures,
 Secret Door.  The dead man’s tell  item activates
when it is within 30 feet of a secret door.
 Trap. The dead man’s tell  item activates when it
is within 30 feet of a hidden trap or disguised pit
or snare.
The first time the dead man’s tell  item detects one
or more of the chosen category or subcategories of
subjects within 30 feet, it activates. When activated,
the item violently spasms for one round; a hand
clenches, a finger jerks, jaws chatter and the like.
The dead man’s tell  item does not indicate the
power or location of the subject it has detected,
merely its presence within 30 feet at the time of its
activation. After being activated, the spell ends, and
the body part rapidly decays and dessicates
(meaning the same body part cannot be used for
this spell again once it has been activated).
A creature is not detected by the dead man’s tell
item if it is separated from it by 1 foot of stone, 1
inch of common metal, a thin sheet of lead, or 3 feet

Page 100
of wood of dirt, or if it is protected by an effect that
prevents divination (such as a nondetection  spell).
The same spellcaster cannot have multiple dead
man’s tell  items affected with this spell at once.
When you cast the dead man’s tell  spell again, any
previous castings of this spell end immediately.


Unknown Spell 277
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 300 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Instantaneous
You summon a 20-foot radius by 40-foot high
towering pile of wood and branches that collapses
to the ground at a point you choose within range. A
creature caught in the area when the pile collapses
must make a Dexterity saving throw. On a failed
save, the creature takes 12d10 bludgeoning damage,
is knocked prone, and is restrained under the pile.
On a successful save, the creature takes half the
bludgeoning damage, isn’t knocked prone, and isn’t
restrained.
A restrained creature can attempt to free itself by
using an action on its turn to make a Strength check
against a DC of 20. Another creature can spend its
actions every round for 1 minute to clear the rubble
around the trapped creature. The area affected by
this spell is considered difficult terrain until it is
cleared.


Unknown Spell 278
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self
Components:  V, S, M (paste made from ground
bones)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
After casting this spell, a shroud of dark flames
wreathes your body. For the spell’s duration, any
creature within 5 feet of you that touches you or
hits you with a melee attack takes an amount of necrotic damage equal to 1d4 + your spellcasting
ability modifier.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the amount of
necrotic damage increases by 1d4 for each slot level
above 1st.
“This simple spell is both effective and
very dramatic to behold!”


Unknown Spell 279
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 hour
When you cast this spell, spectral black scales
appear and form a protective coat all over your
body, while shadowy claws sprout from your
fingers. Attack rolls made against you are made at
disadvantage for the duration. You can use your
spellcasting ability score instead of Strength for the
attack and damage rolls of your unarmed strikes,
and you can roll a d6 in place of the normal damage
for your unarmed strikes.
Finally, as an action on each of your turns, you
can either project a 30-foot cone of fear, or cast
inflict wounds  as a 3rd-level spell without using a
spell slot. The cone of fear has the same effect as the
fear spell.


Unknown Spell 280
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (a blackened iron bell)
Duration: Instantaneous
You can see the life force ebbing from wounded
creatures nearby. At the beginning of your turn, you
know which enemy creature within 30 feet has the
lowest hit point total. You must attack that creature
this turn, you have advantage on your attack rolls

Page 101
and inflict an extra 1d8 necrotic damage to the
target. If you reduce that creature to 0 hit points
this turn, you have advantage on your next attack
roll and you inflict an extra 1d8 necrotic damage.
At Higher Levels. You can cast this spell using a
spell slot of 3rd level or higher. You inflict an extra
1d8 damage per level above 2nd.


Unknown Spell 281
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 90 feet
Components:  V, S, M (an eye from a zombie)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 10 minutes
Choose one creature within range. That creature
must make a Wisdom saving throw. If they succeed,
they experience a sudden chill, but no other effect.
If they fail, every creature they see looks like
grasping, clawing zombies. The target is frightened
of every creature it can see. If the target failed the
save by 5 or more, it is rendered unconscious.


Unknown Spell 282
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 90 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a string of finger bones)
Duration:  Instantaneous
Designate a 20-foot radius circle within range.
Ghostly, skeletal hands reach out of the ground,
clawing at everyone within the circle. Choose one
creature in the spell area, which must then make a
Constitution saving throw. If it succeeds, the spell
ends. If it fails, it takes necrotic damage, as per the
following instructions.
Roll 10d10. If the total is less than the creature's
current hit points, it takes the total result as
necrotic damage and the spell ends. If the total roll
exceeds the creature's current hit points, it takes
damage equal to its current hit points and dies, and
the remaining damage moves on to another
creature of your choice, which must also make a
Constitution saving throw, as above. Continue repeating this process until the damage
is exhausted, or someone successfully saves and
ends the spell. This spell does not affect the undead.


Unknown Spell 283
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S, M (a small live spider, a drop of
stomach acid, and a tooth)
Duration:  Permanent
You touch a creature, and it must immediately
make a Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, one
of its limbs turns into a mindless, hairy spider. On
the target's next turn, the spider twists around and
starts to devour its host. The target then takes 1d6
piercing damage at the start of each of its turns.
Dispel magic  can only halt the spell and save the
limb if it is cast before the end of your next turn
after death spider  is cast. Otherwise, the spider limb
must be hacked off (15 AC, 40 hp, vulnerable to
slashing damage), which kills the spider. If the
spider is not stopped, it will continue to inflict
damage on its host, consuming it when it reaches 0
hp, and then growing into a giant spider  over the
next 24 hours.
“This surely ranks as one of the most
disturbing spells ever devised. It was
created by the Drow as a way to combine
execution with entertainment.”
“Elminster is a wasteful gossip with no
regard for efficiency. This spell replaces
an enemy with a servant, or an
incompetent servant with a better one. I
only wish it were quicker about it.”


Unknown Spell 284
Casting Time:  1 action

Page 102
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S, M (the item to be enchanted)
Duration:  Permanent
You link your life force to a small item. A knife,
ring, or amulet is typical, but any item can be
chosen. While you remain healthy, the item
remains in perfect shape, never taking and wear or
tear. If it takes damage, it regains hit points
whenever you do, and in the same amount (so, if
you regain 8 hit points, the item also regains 8 hit
points), up to its normal maximum.
If you are killed or suffer the incapacitated,
paralyzed, petrified, stunned, or unconscious
conditions, the talisman becomes rusted and dull.
Once the condition is removed the talisman will
regain its luster. Damaging the item does not harm
you. These effects persist even if you and the item
are not on the same plane. This spell ends if you
cast it again..
“I knew an arcane archer who cast this
spell upon his bow, so as to ensure his
bowstring never snapped.”


Unknown Spell 285
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Personal
Components:  V, S
Duration:  8 hours
As life leaves your body you have one final act of
revenge. If you are slain while this spell is in effect
your body explodes. Everyone within 50 feet must
make a Dexterity save. They take 10d8 fire damage
on a failed save, and half as much on a successful
one. Your body is destroyed and you cannot be
brought back to life by any means short of a true
resurrection or wish.


Unknown Spell 286
Casting Time:  1 action Range: 30 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You grant yourself a heightened sense for the
energies of life and death. For the duration, you
always know whether each creature within range
that is not behind total cover is near death (at 0 hit
points) or fragile (less than 25% of their hit point
maximum). You also know if a creature is undead,
alive, or neither (an unliving construct, for
example).
If something appears to be a creature, but is not,
or if it is something that has never been alive (such
as a statue), you sense that as well.
This spell does not penetrate illusions (causing
illusory creatures to appear alive), and if a creature
is under the effects of a feign death spell or a similar
effect, you detect it as being dead. If a creature is a
construct but also alive (such as a warforged), you
detect it as being alive.


Unknown Spell 287
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self
Components:  V, S, M (a duskwood club or
quarterstaff of duskwood)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You transform a club or quarterstaff carved of
duskwood into a 10-foot long staff made of
punishing magical force. For the duration, you can
use your spellcasting ability instead of Strength for
melee attack and damage rolls using that weapon,
your reach with the weapon becomes 10 feet, and
you inflict 1d12 force damage when you hit with it,
instead of the weapon's normal damage. The
weapon is considered magical for the duration. The
spell ends if you cast it again or if you let go of the
weapon.
In addition, once per turn, when you hit with the
weapon you can choose to inflict an additional 1d8
necrotic damage. You regain hit points equal to half
the amount of necrotic damage you inflicted.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using

Page 103
a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, the necrotic
damage increases by 1d8 for each slot level above
2nd.


Unknown Spell 288
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 5 feet
Components:  V, M (a weapon)
Duration:  1 minute
As part of the action used to cast this spell, you
must make a melee attack with a weapon against
one creature within the spell’s range, otherwise the
spell fails. On a hit, the target suffers the attack’s
normal effects, its speed is reduced by 5 feet for the
duration, and it cannot take reactions until the start
of its next turn. On a miss, the target takes psychic
damage equal to your spellcasting ability modifier,
and the spell ends. This spell also ends early if you
are incapacitated or you die.
For the duration, the target you hit with the
melee weapon attack for this spell must make an
Intelligence saving throw at the start of each of its
turns, ending the spell on a success. If it fails the
save, until the spell ends, the creature cannot take
reactions, bonus actions, or the Dash action.
In addition, each time a creature fails its saving
throw against this spell, its speed is reduced by an
additional 5 feet (which is cumulative with previous
reductions to its speed from this spell), and one ally
of your choice that you can see within 10 feet of you
or the target can move up to 5 feet without
provoking opportunity attacks.


Unknown Spell 289
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self (30-foot radius)
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
When you cast this spell, an aura of decay
surrounds you. For the duration, whenever a hostile
creature within range takes damage, it must make a Constitution saving throw. On a failed saving throw,
it suffers a festering wound. This wound inflicts 5
necrotic damage on the creature at the start of each
of its turns.
A creature suffering from a festering wound can
make a new Constitution saving throw at the end of
each of its turns. A successful saving throw stops
the ongoing necrotic damage from that wound and
causes the creature to be immune to the effects of
this spell for 1 minute. A creature can suffer from
only one festering wound at a time.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, the amount of
necrotic damage increases by 5 for each slot level
above 2nd.


Unknown Spell 290
Casting Time:  1 reaction
Range: Self
Components:  V
Duration:  Concentration, up to 10 minutes
For the duration, your lungs continue to fill with
air. Once the spell ends, you are treated as if you
had just taken in a lung full of air. You can cast this
spell with a simple word, allowing you to cast it in
response to being pulled underwater or caught in a
poisonous cloud.


Unknown Spell 291
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S, M (a pinch of dried carrot or an
agate)
Duration:  8 hours
You touch a creature and grant it darkvision out to
a range of 90 feet for the spell’s duration. If the
target already has darkvision to a range of 90 feet or
more, then its vision is extended another 30 feet.
In addition, the target can see in magical
darkness cast at the same level or lower as if it were
lightly obscured.

Page 104
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 5th level or higher, you can touch and
affect one additional creature for every two slot
levels above 3rd.


Unknown Spell 292
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: Self
Components: V
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You gain a +1 bonus to Armor Class against all
opportunity attacks and all other attacks made as
part of a creature’s reaction. Each time you cast
another spell of 1st-level or higher while
concentrating on this one, the bonus from this spell
improves. The bonus increases by a number equal
to the level of the spell slot you used to cast the
spell. While the bonus from this spell is +2 or
higher, your spell attacks deal an extra 1d4 force
damage on a hit.
At Higher Levels.  If you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the initial bonus
improves by +1 for each spell level above 3rd.


Unknown Spell 293
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You cause a shield of shimmering force to appear
and thwart attacks against a creature you can see
within range. Ranged attacks have disadvantage
against the affected creature. In addition, it gains a
+1 bonus to its AC against melee attacks.


Unknown Spell 294
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a chip from a tombstone or
a sliver of wood from a coffin)
Duration:  1 round
You choose one creature you can see within range
to benefit from this spell. If the affected creature’s
hit points are reduced to 0, it remains conscious
and can act normally until the start of your next
turn. However, if the recipient
takes damage from a single
blow or source equal to its
Constitution score while it
has 0 hit points, then it
immediately falls
unconscious and misses it
first death saving throw.
Likewise, if the spell ends
while the recipient’s
current hit points are 0,
then it falls unconscious
and misses its first death
saving throw.
If the creature dies
while under the effects of
this spell, it can be raised
from the dead by normal
means.

Page 105


Unknown Spell 295
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 120 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
This spell behaves like magic missile , with the
following differences:
 The spell creates six missiles, each dealing 1d6 +
1 force damage.
 The missiles are not stopped by shield.
 If you so desire, the spell will not fire until a
trigger word, chosen by you, is spoken. You can
speak the trigger word a bonus action. If you do
not speak the trigger word by the time the spell
ends, the missiles are not fired.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 5th level or higher, one extra missile is
created for each slot level above 4th.
“If ye know there is something nasty
behind the door, it can be very beneficial
to prepare one or two of these before ye
enter…”


Unknown Spell 296
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 15 feet
Components: V, S, M (a weapon)
Duration: Instantaneous
You utter a primal word of command, forcing
enemies to bow down while your allies better their
tactical positions. Choose up to five creatures you
can see within range. Each one must roll a Wisdom
saving throw, taking 5d10 psychic damage on a
failed save or half as much on a success. Creatures
immune to being charmed have advantage on this
saving throw. Each creature that fails the save also
falls prone, and if it stands up from being prone
before the end of your next turn, doing so provokes opportunity attacks from any creatures that have it
within their reach.
If at least one creature fails its saving throw, every
ally of your choice with range can immediately use
its reaction to move up to 15 feet.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 6th level or higher, the damage
increases by 1d10 for each slot level above 5th.


Unknown Spell 297
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components:  V, S, M (25 gp worth of silver dust,
and a vial of unholy water)
Duration:  24 hours
You imbue a 20-foot radius sphere within range
with negative energy. Any undead in this area have
advantage on their saving throws. If the area
includes an altar to your god, or a desecrated altar
to an enemy god, then any undead in the area also
gain resistance to nonmagical bludgeoning,
piercing, and slashing damage. If an undead
creature is animated, created, conjured, or
summoned in the area, it gains temporary hit points
equal to its Hit Dice as soon as it appears.


Unknown Spell 298
Casting Time: 1 reaction, taken when a creature
within range inflicts damage on you that reduces
your current hit points to half your hit point
maximum or fewer
Range: 60 feet
Components: V
Duration: Instantaneous
Make a melee or ranged spell attack (your choice)
against the creature that dealt the triggering
damage. If the attack roll hits, the target takes 4d4
force damage, and you regain a number of hit
points equal to the force damage you inflict. If the
attack roll misses, you take necrotic damage equal
to your level, which cannot be reduced or redirected

Page 106
by any means. If damage from this spell reduces you
to 0 hit points, you immediately fail one death save.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of or higher, the force damage inflicted
increases by 1d4 for each slot level above 2nd.


Unknown Spell 299
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  1 round
Until the end of your next turn, you know the
location of any dragon, dragonborn, or half-dragon
within 60 feet of you that is not behind total cover.
If you cast this spell again when you have already
cast it within the last minute, if you detect any
dragon or half-dragon within range, you must make
a Wisdom saving throw against your spell save DC.
On a failed save, you are frightened by the nearest
dragon or half-dragon you detect until the end of
your next turn.
"This cantrip be one of a handful of
divinations which offer powerful
glimpses into the true nature of
creatures around ye. Glimpse too often,
however, and the creatures ye seek
glimpse back, much to the caster's peril.”


Unknown Spell 300
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S, M (a small silver or brass bell)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You touch a creature that is either drugged,
drunken, unconscious, or sleeping, and it must
make a Wisdom saving throw. The saving throw is
made with disadvantage if the creature is asleep or
unconscious. On a failed save, the creature begins
to talk randomly. At the start of the creature’s turn
each round, roll 1d4; on a roll of 1, the creature speaks a password, a word to activate an item, the
name of a secret location, the direction toward a
hideout, or other similar secret information.
The creature can’t be asked specific questions. At
the end of each of the creature’s turns, it can
attempt a new Wisdom saving throw. On a
successful save, the creature is no longer affected by
this spell. If the creature is awakened or cured of its
current condition at any time, the spell ends.


Unknown Spell 301
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components:  V, M (a quill)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 hour
Choose a book, scroll, or paper that is on your
person when you cast this spell. For the duration,
any words spoken out loud within 20 feet of the
chosen object automatically appears written on its
pages. Foreign languages are not translated but do
appear spelled correctly using that language’s
alphabet. Verbal components of magical spells are
not recorded.


Unknown Spell 302
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 300 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a fossil)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minutes
You call forth the intangible but terrifying spirits of
ancient dinosaurs, who rise up from beneath the
earth to trample your enemies. You choose a 40-
foot-radius, 20-foot-high cylinder anywhere within
range to contain a herd of stampeding dinosaur
spirits. At least part of this cylinder must be
touching the ground.
When the stampede area appears, each creature
in it must make a Dexterity saving throw. A creature
takes 4d12 force damage on a failed throw, or half as
much damage on a successful one. A creature must
also make this saving throw when it ends its turn

Page 107
within the stampede area.
While this spell is active, you must use your
bonus action on each of your turns to choose a new
cylinder of the same size within range to be the
stampede area. The center point of the new cylinder
must be at least 15 feet from the center point of the
previous one, but can be no more than 40 feet away
from it. If there are creatures within the new
stampede area, those creatures must make the
saving throw against the stampede's damage. If you
end your turn without having moved the stampede
area in this way, the spell ends.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 6th level or higher, the damage
increases by 1d12 for each slot level above 5th.


Unknown Spell 303
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self (30-foot radius)
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
Your magical lament stirs destructive forces that
damage and weaken your enemies. For the
duration, any creature of your choice that starts its
turn within 30 feet of you must make a Constitution
saving throw. On a failed save, the creature takes
2d10 thunder damage, and it has disadvantage on
Strength ability checks, attack rolls, and saving
throws until the end of its next turn. On a
successful save, the creature takes half the damage,
and doesn’t have disadvantage on Strength checks.
The dirge can be heard up to 150 feet away (or
farther with a successful Wisdom (Perception)
check as determined by your DM).
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 7th level or higher, the damage
increases by 1d10 for each slot level above 6th.


Unknown Spell 304
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S Duration: Instantaneous
Choose one creature you can see within range. You
cause a burst of force to target a weapon it wields.
The target must make a Dexterity saving throw or
drop the weapon. The creature has advantage on its
saving throw if it wields the weapon with two
hands. If the weapon is dropped, it falls into a space
of your choice within 5 feet of the target.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, the saving throw
DC increases by 1 for every two slot levels above 1st.


Unknown Spell 305
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S, M (a cocoon of a death’s head
moth)
Duration:  24 hours
You alter the appearance of an undead creature
with the touch of your hand, masking its undead
nature. You can make the creature appear as it did
in life, or give it the appearance of another race.
However, you can’t change the creature’s general
body type, but you could, for example, make a
zombie or a wight look like a half-elf dressed in fine
clothing. In addition, you can alter its height by one
foot, making it appear taller or shorter, and you can
make it look fat, thin, or anything in between. You
can add small distinctive features to the illusion,
such as a mole on the creature’s face, or a braided
beard. However, the spell doesn’t change the smell,
sound, or tactile features of the undead.
Another creature interacting with the disguised
undead can use an action to make an Intelligence
(Investigation) check against your spell save DC to
detect the disguise. The spell masks the disguised
creature from divination spells that detect undead.
To such a divination spell, the creature appears as
the type of creature the disguise emulates.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 4th level or higher, you can touch and
affect one additional undead for every two slot
levels above 2nd.

Page 108


Unknown Spell 306
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 120 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 10 minutes
You create discordant whispers that fill a 20-foot
radius within range. The whispers start at a low
volume, but quickly rise to a crescendo of blaring
and confusing voices that distract all creatures in
the area. Any spellcaster that attempts to cast a
spell within the area must make a Constitution
saving throw against your spell save DC, or the spell
fails. Likewise, a spellcaster in the affected area that
is concentrating on a spell at the start of its turn
must make a Constitution saving throw against your
spell save DC, or lose concentration on the spell.
In addition, any creature within the area has
advantage on saving throws against spells that
depend upon language, such as charm person.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, the radius of the
effect increases by 10 feet for every slot level above
2nd.


Unknown Spell 307
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self (15-foot radius)
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Instantaneous
You let out a discordant, piercing scream that is
painful to all nearby creatures. Each creature within
15 feet of you must make a Constitution saving
throw. On a failed save, the creature takes 6d6
thunder damage, and is knocked prone. It takes half
as much damage on a successful save, and is not
knocked prone. A creature made of inorganic
material such as stone, crystal, or metal has
disadvantage on this saving throw. The sound of
this spell can be heard up to 150 feet away (or
farther with a successful Wisdom (Perception)
check as determined by your DM). At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 4th level or higher, the damage
increases by 1d6 for every slot level above 3rd.


Unknown Spell 308
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You point at a creature within range and speak a
verse of utter gibberish. The creature must make a
Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, the creature
must make a Charisma saving throw against your
spellcasting DC whenever it tries to cast a spell with
verbal components, to speak a command word to
activate an item, or to read a scroll, for the spell’s
duration. On a failed save, the creature utters
gibberish instead of the required component,
command word, or scroll wording, and its action is
wasted without producing the desired effect.
In addition, if a creature fails its Wisdom saving
throw, it has disadvantage on all Charisma ability
checks when interacting with other creatures as it
speaks gibberish mixed with its more intelligible
words. The creature can attempt a new saving
throw at the end of each of its turns, and on a
success, the spell ends.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, you can target one
extra creature for every two slot levels above 1st.


Unknown Spell 309
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Instantaneous
A ray of multi-coloured light streaks out from your
hand at a creature within range, unleashing a
dizzying array of swirling flashes. Make a ranged
spell attack against the target. On a hit, the target
takes 3d4 psychic damage and until the end of its

Page 109
next turn it cannot take reactions and has
disadvantage on Wisdom (Insight or Perception),
and Intelligence (Investigation) checks. If the target
is concentrating on a spell, instead of making the
normal saving throw to maintain concentration
when taking damage, it must make a Constitution
saving throw with disadvantage against your spell
save DC. On a failure, the target loses concentration
on the spell.


Unknown Spell 310
Casting Time:  1 bonus action
Range: 90 feet
Components:  S, M (a small cloth made of black
silk)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You distract your enemies by opening their
perceptions to the fascinating qualities of the world
around them. Choose an area the size of a 40-foot
cube within range. All creatures of your choice
within the area must make a Wisdom saving throw
or they become distracted, studying the shapes of
the clouds, the texture of tree bark, the patterns
carved into a stone wall, the temperature and scent
of a breeze, and more.
For the duration, a creature that fails its saving
throw against this spell has disadvantage on
Wisdom (Insight or Perception), and Intelligence
(Investigation) checks, and on Constitution saving
throws to maintain concentration on spells. An
affected creature can make a new saving throw at
the end of each of its turns, ending the spell’s effect
on it with a success.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 5th level or higher, the cube’s size
increases by 10 feet for every two slot levels above
3rd.
“This spell works against its targets in the short
term, but afterwards many who have been
affected by it report it to have been a sublime or
even ‘life-changing’ experience.”


Unknown Spell 311
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: Self
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
When you hit with a melee attack, you can decide
to take half of the attack’s total damage yourself
(rounded down). When you do so, your attack deals
maximum damage to your target, including
maximum damage from additional dice added to
the attack’s damage, such as dice from a critical hit
or magical enhancement.


Unknown Spell 312
Casting Time:  1 bonus action
Range: 30 feet
Components:  V, M (a melee weapon)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 hour
You place a divinely empowered curse on a creature
that you can see within range. For the duration,
whenever the target is within the reach of your
melee weapon, it provokes an opportunity attack
from you whenever it makes an attack roll that does
not target you. In addition, at the end of each of its
turns, it takes 1d6 radiant damage if it hit a creature
other than you with an attack roll.
If the target drops to 0 hit points before the spell
ends, you can use a bonus action on your turn to
move the spell's effect to a new creature within
range.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 3rd or 4th level, you can maintain
your concentration on the spell for up to 8 hours.
When you use a spell slot of 5th level or higher, you
can maintain your concentration on the spell for up
to 24 hours.
“Since the Second Sundering, divine sanction  is
less well-known, though I consider it one of the
most useful spells available to a paladin.”

Page 110


Unknown Spell 313
Casting Time:  1 bonus action
Range: 40 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  1 minute
This spell creates four 10-foot cubes of swirling
black mist, filled with grasping, shadowy tentacles.
You can choose which spaces the cubes occupy
within range, but at least 5 feet of each cube's outer
edge must be within or adjacent to another cube.
When you cast the spell, you choose whether the
mists are stationary, or move away from you at a
speed of 10 feet on each of your turns.
The area within the mists is heavily obscured,
even blocking darkvision beyond 5 feet. The area is
lightly obscured within 5 feet for creatures with
darkvision. Any creature that starts its turn within
the mists must make a successful Wisdom saving
throw, or be restrained by the shadowy tentacles. A
restrained creature can try a new saving throw to
escape at the end of each of its turns.
The mists can be dispersed within 4 rounds by
moderate winds, or within 1 round by a gust of wind
spell.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 6th level or higher, you can create an
additional 10-foot cube of mists for each slot level
above 5th.


Unknown Spell 314
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self (30-foot radius)
Components:  V, S, M (a tongue)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 hour
You choose a number of willing creatures within
range. For the duration, the targets can all
understand each other’s speech, but no other
creature can understand it. Unless a creature
chooses to purposefully pay attention to what the
characters are saying, it sounds like a mundane and boring conversation, though the actual words are
difficult to follow.
Anyone trying to understand what the
ensorcelled creatures are saying must make a
Wisdom saving throw. A creature that succeeds on
the save can understand the targets’ speech for 1
minute. At the end of that minute, if the creature
wishes to continue understanding the targets’
speech, it must repeat the Wisdom saving throw.


Unknown Spell 315
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You touch a willing creature, and the target is
imbued with the strength, resilience, and bearing of
a dragon. For the duration, the target gains
advantage on Strength, Constitution, and Charisma
saving throws as well as on Strength checks,
Constitution checks, Charisma checks, and attack
rolls which include its Strength modifier. In
addition, until the spell ends, it gains a +2 bonus to
Armor Class, and magic cannot cause it to fall
asleep or become paralyzed.


Unknown Spell 316
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self
Components:  V, S, M
Duration:  Concentration, up to 10 minutes
Choose a type of metallic or chromatic dragon when
casting this spell. For the duration, you can use an
action to emulate the chosen dragon’s breath
weapon.
Once your breath weapon attack has been used, it
must be recharged before it can be used again. At
the beginning of each of your turns thereafter, roll a
d6. If the result is a 5 or 6, the breath weapon
recharges.
As shown below, a creature can make a saving

Page 111
throw against your breath weapon, with the type of
save varying by dragon type. Creatures who succeed
take half damage. Each breath weapon deals 4d6
damage of the type shown in the table:
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 5th level or higher, the damage from
your breath weapon increases by 1d6 for each slot
level above 4th.


Unknown Spell 317
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Instantaneous
When you cast this spell, you emit an ear-splitting
roar. All enemies within range that can hear the
roar must make a Constitution saving throw. A
creature takes 12d6 thunder damage on a failed save
and is stunned until the end of its next turn. A
successful save halves the damage, and the creature
does not suffer the stunned condition.
In addition, all allies within range gain 20
temporary hit points, and gain advantage on the
next attack roll, ability check, or saving throw they
make during the next minute.
The sound of this spell can be heard up to 900
feet away (or farther with a successful Wisdom
(Perception) check as determined by your DM).

Page 112


Unknown Spell 318
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 hour
When you cast this spell, your eyes enlarge, and you
gain the visual perception of a dragon. For the
duration, you have darkvision to a range of 120 feet,
and blindsight to a range of 60 feet.


Unknown Spell 319
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self
Components:  S, M
Duration:  Concentration, up to 10 minutes
When you cast this spell, choose a chromatic
dragon type. Your skin hardens and becomes scaly
and hued with the color of the dragon you selected.
For the duration, you gain a +2 bonus to your AC,
and resistance according to the dragon type you
chose—acid for black, poison for green, cold for
white, lightning for blue, and fire for red.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 4th level or higher, the bonus to your
AC increases by 1 for each slot level above 3rd.


Unknown Spell 320
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 120 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a skull made from
soapstone)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
A grey, skull-shaped cloud rises over your foe to sap
its heath. The target must succeed on a Wisdom
saving throw or gaining 1 level of exhaustion.
Until the spell ends, once during each of your
turns you can use your action to force the target to
make another Wisdom save. On a failure, it gains
another level of exhaustion. When the target makes three successful Wisdom saves, or when it has four
levels of exhaustion, the spell ends.


Unknown Spell 321
Casting Time: 1 reaction, which you take when you
would make a Dexterity check for initiative
Range: Self
Components: S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You make your Dexterity check for initiative at
advantage, and gain a +2 bonus to Armor Class until
the spell ends. In addition, until the end of your
first turn in the combat, your speed increases by 10
feet and you gain a +2 bonus to attack rolls. This
spell ends early if you fail a saving throw or an
enemy hits you with an attack.


Unknown Spell 322
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V
Duration: 10 minutes
You can choose up to four creatures you can see
within range. For the duration, each creature can
hold its breath without suffocating. Follow the rules
for suffocating found in Chapter 8 of the Player’s
Handbook if a creature is still submerged when the
duration expires.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, the duration is
extended another 10 minutes and you can affect one
additional creature for each slot level above 2nd.


Unknown Spell 323
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S, M (a small portion of fur from a
cat’s paw and a duck’s feather)
Duration: 10 minutes

Page 113
A levitation field surrounds the feet of a creature
you touch. For the duration, the creature hovers
slightly above the ground, leaving no trace of its
passage. The creature’s movement speed and
footing unaffected by uneven ground, snow, ice, or
similar terrain. However, if the recipient takes the
Dash action, the spell ends.
In addition, an affected creature can move over
water, but rough seas or waves higher than 1-foot
above the surface disrupt the levitation field and
end the spell early.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the duration is
extended for another 10 minutes for each slot level
above 1st.


Unknown Spell 324
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 5 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a wooden toolbox)
Duration:  1 hour
An immovable, 1-foot cube toolbox appears on the
ground at a point you can see within range. For the
duration, you can pull one set of tools of your
choice from the toolbox,Tools table found in
Chapter 5 of the Player’s Handbook.  You can only
have one set of tools summoned at a time. For the
duration, you can dismiss one set of tools as a bonus
action
Alternatively, you can call forth useful tools and
items from the tool box, such as a shovel, 50’ of
rope, a hammer, pitons, or similar. Each item
summoned can weigh up to 20 pounds. You may
have up to ten such items conjured at a time. You
can’t call forth these items if you have already
summoned a set of tools as described above, nor
can you summon a set of tools if you have already
called forth the alternate items described here.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 5th level or higher, the weight of the
tools you can conjure increases by 5 pounds and the
duration is extended for another hour for each slot
level above 4th.


Unknown Spell 325
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: Self
Components: V, M (a pill bug)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You surround yourself with a thick black shell that
shimmers with dark magic. Until the spell ends, you
gain a +2 bonus to Armor Class and Constitution
saving throws, and whenever a creature ends its
turn within 5 feet of you, it must make a Wisdom
saving throw unless it is immune to the fightened
condition. On a failure, you can push the creature
up to 15 feet away from you, and it is frightened of
you until the end of its next turn. On a success, you
can push the creature up to 10 feet away from you.
For the spell's duration, you also suffer
disadvantage on Charisma (Persuasion) checks.


Unknown Spell 326
Casting Time:  1 reaction, which you take when you
reduce a creature within 60 feet to 0 hit points with
a weapon attack
Range: 60 feet
Components:  V
Duration:  Concentration, up to 10 minutes
You offer an opponent mercy in exchange for its
cooperation. Choose one creature within range that
you have just reduced to 0 hit points with a weapon
attack. You instead reduce that creature to 1 hit
point and immediately command its surrender. It
must make a Wisdom saving throw. On a failure,
the creature is frightened of you, but rather than
fleeing, the frightened creature stays where it is and
does not move unless you tell it to.
For the duration, the creature (that failed its save)
will not attack you, and it fearfully obeys any
instructions it can hear and understand that will
not directly harm it (for example, it will not
knowingly drink poison or walk off a cliff).
While affected, the creature will not deliberately
say anything to you that it believes to be a lie,

Page 114
though it can simply remain silent if you do not ask
any direct questions.
Whenever you or one of your allies attempt to
harm the creature, or if you give it instructions that
would harm it or force it to make a saving throw
against another effect, it repeats its Wisdom saving
throw against this spell, ending the spell on a
success. You always know if a creature has
succeeded or failed on a saving throw against this
spell. When the spell’s effect ends, a creature that
never succeeded on any saving throws against this
spell is unaware it was magically influenced,
believing its fear of you was merely natural.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, the duration is
increased to 1 hour. If you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 6th level or higher, the duration is
increased to 8 hours.


Unknown Spell 327
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 5 feet
Components:  V, M (a weapon)
Duration:  1 round
After a feint and an attack against your foe, you
appear defenseless, but otherworldly power
disguises your cunning readiness to capitalize on
their next move. As part of the action used to cast
this spell, you must make a melee attack with a
weapon against one creature within the spell's
range, otherwise the spell fails. On a hit, the target
suffers the attack's normal effects and takes an
additional 1d10 psychic damage, and until the start
of your next turn, you and the target have
advantage on attack rolls against each other, but
disadvantage on attack rolls against all other
creatures.
In addition, the next time the target attacks you
before the start of your next turn, it provokes
opportunity attacks from you and any other allies of
yours within 5 feet of it.


Unknown Spell 328
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: Self
Components: V, M (a weapon)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
The next time you hit a creature with a weapon
attack before this spell ends, images of you and your
companions as daunting figures discourage your foe
from confronting you. The attack deals an extra 1d8
psychic damage to the target, and you can push the
target up to 5 feet away from you. In addition, the
next time the target makes an attack roll against
you or a creature friendly to you before the end of
its next turn, it takes psychic damage equal to your
spellcasting ability modifier.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the extra damage
increases by 1d8 for each slot level above 1st.


Unknown Spell 329
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components:  V
Duration:  Instantaneous
You speak five words of a forgotten language of
terrible evil, striking pain in the mind of your target
as the world seems to darken around you. Choose
one target within range. The target takes 10d6
necrotic damage, and you must make a Wisdom
saving throw against your own spellcasting DC. You
take 5d6 necrotic damage on a failed saving throw
or half as much on a successful one. Whether you
succeed or fail, you are lightly obscured by darkness
until the start of your net turn.
The decision to speak the forbidden tongue this
spell requires should not be made lightly. Besides
the immediate danger, it also makes the caster
known to certain eldritch beings whose notice is
best avoided.”

Page 115


Unknown Spell 330
Casting Time: 1 bonus
action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: 1 minute
You call forth the spirit of
warrior who shared your
zealous faith in life and
returns now to harry your
foes. The spirit appears in
an unoccupied space you
choose within range and
lasts for the duration or
until you cast this spell
again. Creatures of your
choice within 5 feet of the
spirit take a -2 penalty to
Armor Class, and you and
creatures and friendly to
you treat the spirit as an
ally for the purposes of
traits, spells, and class
features (such as a rogue's
sneak attack). Creatures
hostile to you cannot move
through the spirit's space.
When a creature leaves a
space within 5 feet of the
spirit, you can use your
reaction to make a melee spell attack against that
creature. On a hit, the target takes psychic damage
equal to 1d10 + your spellcasting ability modifier. On
a miss, the target still takes psychic damage equal to
your spellcasting ability modifier.
As a bonus action on your turn, you can move the
warrior up to 30 feet to any unoccupied space.
The spirit shares your race and wears armor of a
past age. Clerics of deities who are associated with a
particular symbol or weapon (such as the black
hand of Bane or the flaming sword of Tempus) usually conjure a dreadful warrior bearing that
symbol or weapon.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 4th level of or higher, the damage
increases by 1d10 for every two slot levels above 3rd.


Unknown Spell 331
Casting Time:  1 action
Components:  V, S, M (a mithril orb worth at least
5,000 gp)

Page 116
Range: Self
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 hour
Your body falls into an enchanted slumber and your
spirit ventures into the world. Your spirit is invisible
and has a fly speed of 100’. You can move through
creatures and objects as if they are difficult terrain.
Your spirit cannot be paralyzed, petrified, grappled,
or restrained. You can see and hear as if you were
standing in the same location as your spirit. Your
spirit cannot attack or cast spells; it can just
observe. Creatures and spells that can detect
invisible or ethereal creatures can see your spirit.
When the spell ends, your spirit returns to your
body, and you wake up. If something attacks your
body while your spirit is absent, the spell ends.


Unknown Spell 332
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self (70-foot radius)
Components:  V, S, M (a drum)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
The sounds of ominous drums fill the air, preparing
your allies for war and filling your enemies with
dread. Allies within the area of effect gain +4 to hit
in melee. Enemies within range must make a
Wisdom saving throw. Those that fail have -2 to hit
rolls, and make Wisdom saving throws with
disadvantage. Enemies may repeat the Wisdom save
at the end of their turn to end the spell’s effect on
them.


Unknown Spell 333
Casting Time:  1 bonus action
Range: Self
Components:  V
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
For the duration of this spell, whenever you use
your reaction to cast a spell with a casting time of 1
reaction during another creature's turn, you can
cast one more spell of 5th-level or lower that has a
casting time of 1 reaction before the end of that creature's turn, even though your reaction has
already been used (this is an exception to the rule
that you can only cast one spell of 1st-level or higher
per turn). Spells cast in this way still use spell slots
normally.
In addition, for the duration of this spell, you gain
a +2 bonus on Intelligence (Arcana) checks, and on
all ability checks for your spellcasting ability that do
not already include your proficiency bonus.
“I once encountered a moderately
accomplished wizard with the duel ward
spell in his grimoire, yet he did not have
counterspell  inscribed with it. I noted
that without the ability to prepare
counterspell, duel ward was all but
useless, and he said with utter confidence,
‘but one day soon, I will learn that spell
as well.’ And sure enough, he soon did —I
taught it to him!”


Unknown Spell 334
Casting Time:  10 minutes
Range: 10 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a feather, and varies)
Duration:  Instantaneous
A glowing feather quill appears in the air. You can
make the quill copy any writing, script, or runes
that you can see within range onto another suitable
surface that you can see within range. The original
writing remains intact after the duplicate is made.
This spell will make an exact copy of magical
writing without error, such as that from a scroll,
glyph, or a spell from a spell book.
Only a feather is needed as the material
component to copy nonmagical writing from one
source onto another. However, the spellcaster will
need a piece of parchment, a book page, or another
suitable object to duplicate spell scrolls in addition
to the necessary spell components, which are
consumed by the spell in the process. A glyph,

Page 117
runes, or writing can be copied onto stone, wood, or
another suitable surface, but might not be mobile or
easily carried in many circumstances.
This spell can only duplicate 1st level spell scrolls
(see exception below). In addition, you can’t use a
spell focus to substitute for the components when
copying scrolls.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a higher-level spell slot than 4th level, you can copy
a spell scroll one level higher for every two slot
levels above 4th. For example, you could copy a 2nd
level spell scroll with a 6th level spell slot, or a 3rd
level spell scroll with an 8th level slot.


Unknown Spell 335
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S, M (a pinch of dust)
Duration:  Instantaneous
You turn a small pinch of dust into a deadly poison.
If this poison is ingested (such as if you slip it into
their food or drink), the victim must make a
Constitution saving throw. The victim takes 10d8
poison damage on a failed save, or half as much
damage on a successful one. If this reduces its hit
points to 0, it dies.
This poison cannot be detected by non-magical
means. Victims of this spell are left with a residue of
dust around their mouths.


Unknown Spell 336
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 90 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a pyramid-shaped carving of
obsidian)
Duration:  Instantaneous
With one stern, commanding word, you gesture to a
point on the ground within range, and the indicated
spot erupts in a shower of rock, dirt, and fire. Each
creature in a 20-foot radius sphere centered on that
point takes 5d6 fire damage and must make a Dexterity saving throw. A target that fails the saving
throw is knocked prone and takes additional
bludgeoning damage equal to the fire damage. The
fire also ignites flammable objects in the area that
aren't being worn or carried.
After the spell ends, the area of the spell becomes
difficult terrain until it is cleared. Each 5-foot-
square portion of the area requires at least 1 minute
to clear by hand.
Earth-based or fire-based elemental creatures do
not take damage from this spell.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell
using a spell slot of 5th level or higher, the fire
damage increases by 1d6 for each level above 4th.


Unknown Spell 337
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S, M (a chunk of granite)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 10 minutes
When you cast this spell, you touch a creature and
grant it an affinity for earth and stone. For the
duration of the spell, the creature has resistance to
damage from creatures or objects made of any kind
of earth (including stone, dust, soil, clay, or
elemental earth), and from earth-based spells and
magical effects. This includes falling rocks, falling
damage from impacting against any kind of earth,
attacks by earth-based creatures (such as clay or
stone golems, gargoyles, earth elementals). Acid
damage and damage from metal objects or creatures
are not considered earth-based for purposes of this
spell, which grants no resistance to such damage.


Unknown Spell 338
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 300 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  1 hour
As you cast this spell, select a vertical surface within
range, such as a cliff face, tree trunk, or similar

Page 118
surface. Small handholds and footholds appear on
the surface, up to the spell’s range. For the duration,
all creatures who make Strength (Athletics) checks
to climb the affected surface do so with advantage.
“How any young mage can sensibly
venture underground without this spell is
beyond me, yet it appears to be entirely
unknown to modern spellcasters.”


Unknown Spell 339
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self (40-foot radius)
Components:  V, S
Duration:  8 hours
When you cast this spell, heavy undergrowth parts
as you approach, then moves back after you pass.
For the duration, your speed and that of creatures
within 40 feet of you isn’t reduced by difficult
terrain caused by any kind of plant or vegetable
matter, and any creature attempting to track you
has disadvantage on its survival checks to find or
follow your trail.


Unknown Spell 340
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self
Components:  V, S, M (five black lotus seeds)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You surround your hand with jumping, twisting
shadows, and your whole arm becomes semi-
transparent. For the duration, when you cast a spell
that has a range of touch, you can choose to make
the range of the spell 30 feet instead. Once per
casting, you may grant yourself advantage on one
melee spell attack roll.


Unknown Spell 341
Casting Time:  1 action
Components:  V, S, M (a tiny animal skull)
Range: Touch
Duration:  24 hours
You whisper to the animal skull, and it briefly
flashes a brilliant blue. For the next 24 hours, you
may use a bonus action to switch your spirit
between your body and the skull. When your spirit
is in the skull, you can see and hear as if you were
standing where the skull lies. You and the skull
must be on the same plane. When your spirit is in
the skull, your body is unconscious. When your
spirit returns to your body, you regain
consciousness.


Unknown Spell 342
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Using your action, you conjure a sphere of barely
perceptible wisps of shadow which amplify doubts
and fears. Choose a point within range. Each
creature in a 20-foot radius sphere centered on that
point must make a Wisdom saving throw. Creatures
that fail the saving throw fall prone and become
frightened of you until the end of your next turn. A
creature must also make the save when it starts its
turn within the sphere. A construct or an undead is
immune to this effect.
As a bonus action on each of your turns until the
spell ends, you can either move the sphere up to 15
feet or push a creature within the sphere's area up
to 15 feet away from you.


Unknown Spell 343
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet

Page 119
Components: V
Duration: 1 round
As part of the action used to cast this spell, you
must make an unarmed strike or weapon attack
against one creature within range. On a hit, the
target suffers the attack's normal effects, and if the
target is concentrating on a spell when this attack
hits, the attack deals extra thunder damage equal to
your spellcasting ability modifier, which creates a
loud noise that can be heard up to 100 feet away. In
addition, if this attack causes the target to make a
Constitution saving throw to maintain
concentration on a spell, that saving throw is made
with disadvantage.
This spell's damage increases when you reach
higher levels. At 5th level, the melee attack deals an
extra 1d6 thunder damage to the target (whether or
not it is concentrating on a spell). This extra
damage increases to 2d6 at 11th level and 3d6 at 17th
level.


Unknown Spell 344
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 10 minutes
You select a creature within range, and nine small
silvery orbs spring into being, hovering around the
creature and granting it strong magical protection.
As an action on your turn, you can transfer the orbs
(and their protection) to another recipient within
range.
When a spell forces the protected creature to
make a saving throw, or when the creature is
targeted by a spell attack, it may choose to expend
one of the orbs to nullify the spell's effect on it. The
protected creature no longer needs to make a saving
throw, or the spell attack is absorbed. Afterwards,
the orb that blocked the attack fades away.
This spell only protects the creature you chose
with the orbs hovering around it. Other targets
caught in a spell's area are affected normally. “Casting the spell is easier than
pronouncing it, but I happen to know that,
like many others of his kind, the humble
archmage who named it has an ardent
acquired affection for alliteration.”


Unknown Spell 345
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Instantaneous
You lash out with mental energy against a creature
within range. Make a melee spell attack against the
target. If the attack hits, the creature takes 3d8
psychic damage, and it must make an Intelligence
saving throw. If it fails, it cannot take reactions until
the end of your next turn.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the damage
increases by 1d8 for each slot level above 1st.


Unknown Spell 346
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V
Duration: Instantaneous
You teleport yourself up to 30 feet to an unoccupied
space that you can see. You can bring along objects
as long as their weight doesn't exceed what you can
carry.
If you wish, you can also take one creature with
you when you cast this spell, provided that creature
is within 5 feet of you, it is Medium or smaller, and
it is not carrying gear in excess of its carrying
capacity.
When you take a creature with you, each of you
is teleported to an unoccupied space of your choice
within 30 feet. Your new space and that of the
creature you take with you must be within 5 feet of

Page 120
each other. If either of you would arrive in a place
already occupied by an object or a creature, the
spell fails to teleport either of you.
If the other creature is not willing to be
teleported, it must roll a Charisma saving throw. On
a success, it is not teleported. A creature has
advantage on this saving throw if it can see you,
unless you are in combat with it and it has not yet
taken a turn.
When you use this spell to teleport another
creature, a loud popping sound emanates from that
creature's location when you first cast the spell,
followed by another loud popping sound that
emanates from the creature's new location when it
arrives. Both times, the sound is audible out to 100
feet.


Unknown Spell 347
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self
Components: V
Duration: 8 hours
The next time you are surprised before the spell
ends, your magical preparation allows you to take
one quick action in response. Though you are still
surprised, rather than being completely unable to
act, you can take one action on your turn during the
surprise round. This action can be used only to take
one of the following actions: Dash, Disengage,
Dodge, Hide, or Use an Object. After you take this
action, the spell ends early.


Unknown Spell 348
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V
Duration: Instantaneous
With a strike of your weapon, your battle magic
transports your opponent with you to another area
where you may continue duelling. As part of the
action used to cast this spell, you must make a melee attack with a weapon against one creature
within 5 feet of you, otherwise the spell fails.
On a hit, the target suffers the attack's normal
effects, and you and the target are each teleported
to an unoccupied space of your choice within 30
feet. Your new space and that of the creature you
take with you must be within 5 feet of each other. If
either of you would arrive in a place already
occupied by an object or a creature, the spell fails to
teleport either of you.


Unknown Spell 349
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: Self
Components: V, M (a reflective object, such as a
mirror or polished metal weapon)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You magically teleport up to 30 feet to an
unoccupied space you can see within 5 feet of a
hostile creature. Until the spell ends, as a bonus
action on each of your turns, you can teleport again,
transporting yourself up to 30 feet to an unoccupied
space you can see. Every time you teleport with this
spell, the space you teleport into must be within 5
feet of a hostile creature.


Unknown Spell 350
Casting Time:  1 reaction, which you take when you
would roll initiative
Range: Self
Components:  V
Duration:  1 round
You gain advantage on the triggering initiative roll,
and until the end of your first turn in combat, your
walking speed increases by 30 feet.


Unknown Spell 351
Casting Time: 1 reaction, which you take when a
creature within 15 feet of you teleports
Range: Self

Page 121
Components: S
Duration: Instantaneous
When another creature teleports, you draw upon
some of that magic to reposition yourself as well.
You can teleport up to 15 feet into an unoccupied
space vacated by the triggering creature.


Unknown Spell 352
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 5 feet
Components: V, M (a melee weapon)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
A moment of battlefield success grants you a
magical epiphany, allowing you to place a combat
enchantment on your weapon. As part of the action
used to cast this spell, you must make a melee
attack with a weapon against one creature within
the spell's range, otherwise the spell fails. On a hit,
the target suffers the attack's normal effects, and
you draw chronomantic magic energy from the
target's place in time to enchant your weapon. For
the duration, the speed of the target you hit is
reduced by half, you have advantage on melee spell
attacks against the target, and you can use the
melee weapon you attacked with as a spellcasting
focus for any spell you cast. Whether you hit or
miss, until the spell ends, the weapon gains a +1
bonus to its attack and damage rolls, unless it is a
magic weapon that already has a bonus to those
rolls.
At Higher Levels.  When you use a spell slot of
5th or 6th level to cast this spell, the weapon's
magical bonus increases to +2. When you cast it
with a spell slot of 7th level or higher, the bonus is
+3.


Unknown Spell 353
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S, M (a plum blossom)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute When you cast this spell, a blade of elemental
energy appears in the hand of a willing creature you
touch. You choose one of the following damage
types when you cast this spell: acid, cold, fire,
lightning, or poison. The elemental blade is the size
and shape of a normal shortsword, but is virtually
weightless. If the wielder lets go of the blade, it
disappears, but until the spell ends, you can evoke it
for the creature again as a bonus action.
The blade sheds bright light in a 10-foot radius
and dim light for an additional 10 feet, and the
wielder can use its action to make a melee attack
with the blade, rolling the attack as if it were
attacking with a regular shortsword. On a hit, the
target takes 2d4 plus your spellcasting ability
modifier damage of the type chosen when this spell
was first cast. Since the blade is immaterial, the
wielder’s Strength or Dexterity modifiers do not
apply to the damage, nor does any extra damage
from special abilities the wielder may possess (such
as sneak attack).
A creature who takes damage from this spell suffers
an additional effect depending on the type of
damage inflicted, as follows:
 Acid. The creature suffers disadvantage on the
next Constitution saving throw it makes before
the start of its next turn (this includes a saving
throw to maintain concentration on a spell
which may be caused by this spell’s damage).
 Cold. Until the end of the creature’s next turn,
its speed is reduced by half and it cannot take
reactions.
 Fire. The creature must immediately choose to
either fall prone to extinguish flames on its body
or be ignited, taking 1d4 fire damage at the end
of each of its turns until it or another creature
within 5 feet takes an action to extinguish the
flames. Creatures wearing metal armor are
immune to this effect.
 Lightning . The creature can’t take reactions
until the start of its next turn and it takes an
extra 1d4 lightning damage if it is wearing metal
armor.

Page 122
 Poison. The creature is poisoned until the end
of its next turn.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a 4th level or higher spell slot, the damage on a hit
increases by ld4 for every two slot levels above 2nd.


Unknown Spell 354
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self
Components:  V, S, M (a bit of the chosen element
from a plane other than where the spell is cast)
Duration:  Concentration up to 4 hours
When you cast this spell, it transforms your body
and all the gear you are carrying into a new form,
composed of your choice of one of the following elements: air, earth, fire, or water. You retain your
previous size and statistics, except as noted below,
but until the spell ends, your creature type becomes
elemental, and you gain the following benefits:
 You are attuned to the environments where this
element completely surrounds you, breathing
and existing in such places comfortably.
 You are immune to poison damage and the
poisoned condition, and to the paralyzed,
stunned, and unconscious conditions.
 You gain resistance to bludgeoning, piercing,
and slashing damage from non-magical
weapons.
In addition, you gain the following special abilities
depending on the elemental type you chose:
Air. You can fly at your normal speed. Creatures

Page 123
have disadvantage on their attack rolls against you
while they are flying or hovering.
Earth. You gain a +1 bonus on attack rolls against
foes that are touching the ground and advantage on
any ability check you make to shove a creature. No
matter what armor you wear, your Armor Class
cannot be lower than 13 + your Dexterity modifier.
Fire. You are immune to fire. Any creature that
grapples you, or is within 5 feet of you when it hits
you with an attack roll, takes 1d6 fire damage. When
you hit with an unarmed strike, you inflict an extra
1d6 fire damage.
Water. You can swim at your normal speed. You
gain a +1 bonus to attack and damage rolls if you
and your opponent are both touching water. You
can use your action to put any nonmagical fire
within 5 feet of you, or to put out any magical fire
within 5 feet of you as if casting dispel magic as a
7th-level spell.


Unknown Spell 355
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components:  V, S, M (varies, see description)
Duration:  Instantaneous
You release the magical energy from one of the
elements in an explosive burst. The material
component of this spell depends on the element:
burning incense for air, soft clay for earth, sulphur
and phosphorus for fire, water and sand for water,
or any kind of vegetable matter for wood.
When you cast this spell, you choose a point
within range that contains one of the following five
elements of your choice: air, earth (which includes
soil, metal, or stone), fire, water, or wood. That
material releases its elemental energy. Each creature
within a 15-foot cone emanating from that point
must make a saving throw. The victim takes 2d6
damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on
a successful one.
The type of saving throw required and damage
inflicted depend on the element, as determined by
the following table: In addition to taking damage, each creature that
fails its saving throw suffers an additional effect,
depending on the element type. These effects are
detailed below, along with descriptions of each
element’s exact effect:
Air. There is a sudden flash of light and peal of
thunder as a gust of wind whips up out of nowhere,
heavy with static electricity that shocks those
nearby. Creatures that fail their save are knocked
prone. Objects that aren’t being worn or carried
become electrified, inflicting 1d6 lightning damage
on the next person who touches them within the
next minute.
Earth. Clumps of metal and rock spray out,
oozing a corrosive substance. Creatures who fail
their save are pushed back 10 feet away from the
point at the center of the effect, as are objects
weighing less than 100 lbs. that aren’t being worn or
carried.
Fire. The fire shoots out glowing sparks. It ignites
flammable objects in the area that aren't being worn
or carried, and creatures who fail their save take an
additional 1d6 damage at the beginning of their next
turn.
Water. Icy water pushes out in a freezing wave
that crashes into those nearby. Creatures who fail
their save reduce their speed by half until the end of
their next turn, and objects weighing less than 100
pounds that aren’t being worn or carried are pushed
back 15 feet away from the point at the center of the
effect.
Wood. The element throws off sharp slivers of
the same material as itself, infused with a poisonous
sap. Creatures who fail their save cannot take
reactions until the end of their next turn. Against
objects, this effect inflicts piercing damage instead
of poison.

Page 124
The explosive noise of this spell can be heard up
to 100 feet away. The spell does not noticeably affect
the structure of any object that is the source of the
elemental effect, unless it is an object that is not
being worn or carried. If that is the case, the object
suffers the same 2d6 damage as a creature that
failed its saving throw.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a 2nd level or higher spell slot, the damage
increases by 1d6 for each slot level above 1st.
“This is one of many extremely useful
spells that originated among the
spellcasters of the continent of Kara-
Tur, where sages identify five elements
instead of four. Unfortunately, the
mages of that land are far better than
those of Faer ûn at keeping their secrets...
So good, in fact, that I know the ways of
spellcasters on distant planes better
than I know those native to the continent
that adjoins my own! To this day, it be
unclear to me whether the creator was a
member of the mystic order known as the
wu-jen, or one of the divinely inspired
sorcerers called the shugenja.”


Unknown Spell 356
Casting Time:  1 bonus action
Range: 5 feet
Components:  V, M (a weapon)
Duration:  1 minute
When you cast this spell, you must choose one
target you have already hit with a melee attack this
turn, otherwise the spell fails. You weave a deadly,
glowing symbol into your target's flesh that makes it
vulnerable to an element of your choice. Select one
of the following damage types: acid, cold, fire,
lightning, or thunder. Until the spell ends, at the
end of any turn in which the target took damage of
the type you chose, the target takes necrotic
damage equal to 2d6 + your spellcasting ability
modifier.


Unknown Spell 357
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S, M (a pinch of ruby dust)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 hour
The target of this spell becomes very physically
beautiful. A subtle glow surrounds the target in
darkness or shadows, and tiny motes of light cling
to the target in daylight. The target gains advantage
on any Charisma checks.
“This effect is very similar to that of spells such
as charm person , but Elonia Starre—that
skilled illusionist of Raven’s Bluff, as well-known
for her prowess as a businesswoman and
beautician as for her magic—cleverly crafted a
spell that locates the enchantment in the caster,
rather than in those the caster seeks to charm. As
a result, this spell bypasses many natural
resistances and immunities, and does not violate
the sanctity of any creature’s mind.”


Unknown Spell 358
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S, M (unguents worth 100 gp)
Duration:  Instantaneous
You preserve one corpse against the ravages of time.
Any decomposition stops but is not reversed. If cast
soon enough after death, the body will look like it’s
simply resting (but it won’t breathe, have a
heartbeat, or show any other signs of life).


Unknown Spell 359
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 10 minutes

Page 125
This spell allows you to probe the minds of
creatures that you can see within range to
determine their general emotions. You can choose
one creature on each of your turns and use an
action to probe its mind to determine one piece of
information about its emotional state. You can
discern whether a creature is hungry or fatigued, or
whether it feels hatred, friendliness, curiosity, or
rage.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, you can determine
one additional piece of information about the
general emotions of one more creature for each slot
level above 1st.


Unknown Spell 360
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S
Duration:  24 hours
For the duration, the creature touched can
comfortably endure cold or hot conditions between
50 below zero to 140 degrees Fahrenheit without
suffering any negative effects. This spell offers no
protection from cold or fire damage, only against
the negative effects of environmental exposure.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, you can touch and
ward one additional creature from the effects of
environmental exposure for every two slot levels
above 1st.


Unknown Spell 361
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S
Duration:  1 minute
You touch a shield and transform it into an
elemental energy type of your choice (cold, fire,
lightning, or acid). You can safely wield the shield,
and while it is donned, you gain resistance to damage from the shield's type for the spell's
duration.
In addition, when you take the Attack action, you
can use a bonus action to make a melee attack with
the shield. On a hit, the target takes 1d6 + your
spellcasting ability modifier of damage of the
shield’s elemental type.
The shield returns to normal when the duration
expires. Only you can wield the shield safely.
Another creature that touches the shield takes the
damage as described above.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 4th level or higher, the elemental
damage increases by 1d6 for every two slot levels
above 2nd.


Unknown Spell 362
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self
Components:  V, S
Duration:  1 round
You can change the damage type of the next spell
you cast. Nothing else about the spell changes, just
the damage type. You must cast the damaging spell
the round after you cast this one.


Unknown Spell 363
Casting Time:  1 action
Components:  V, S
Range: 60 feet
Duration:  Instantaneous
With a howl like the damned, several bolts of black
lightning leap from your target to you. You drain
away its life force and use it to power your own
magic. The target must make a Constitution saving
throw. The target takes 20d8 necrotic damage on a
failed save, or half as much damage on a successful
one. In addition, its hit point maximum is reduced
by the amount of damage it takes. After a long rest,
the target’s hit point maximum returns to normal.
For every 20 points of necrotic damage you inflict,

Page 126
you regenerate a 1st-level spell slot. You can
combine spell slots to regenerate higher level spells.
For example, if you do 85 points of damage, you
could regenerate one 4th-level spell slot, four 1st-
level spell slots, or any combination that does not
exceed 4 spell levels.


Unknown Spell 364
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S
Duration:  24 hours
When you cast this spell, touch a creature and
choose one of the following types of damage: acid,
cold, fire, lightning, or thunder. For the duration,
the creature touched is immune to damage of the
chosen type.


Unknown Spell 365
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: Self (20-foot radius)
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
When you cast this spell, a roaring vortex of
elemental energy of the type you choose (acid, cold,
fire, lightning, or thunder) bursts outward from you
in a 20-foot radius. Each creature in the area must
make a Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, the
creature takes 6d6 of the elemental damage type
you selected, and it is knocked prone. On a
successful save, the creature takes half the damage
and isn’t knocked prone.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 4th level or higher, the elemental
damage increases by 1d6 for each slot level above
3rd.


Unknown Spell 366
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 60 feet Components:  V, S
Duration:  Instantaneous
A bolt of black lightning leaps from your target to
you. The target must make a Constitution saving
throw. The target takes 8d8 necrotic damage on a
failed save, or half as much damage on a successful
one. In addition, its hit point maximum is reduced
by the amount of damage it takes. After a long rest,
the target’s hit point maximum returns to normal.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a 5th level or higher spell slot, the damage increases
by 1d8 for each slot level above 4th.


Unknown Spell 367
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  1 minute
This spell incites and enrages animals, making them
hostile and vicious. Roll 6d10; the total is how many
hit points of creatures this spell can affect. Eligible
beasts within 30 feet of a point you choose within
range are affected in ascending order of their
current hit points (ignoring unconscious creatures,
non-beasts, or beasts with an Intelligence score of 4
or higher, who are unaffected).
Starting with the creature that has the lowest
current hit points, each creature affected by this
spell enters a terrible rage for the duration. Subtract
each creatures’ hit points from the total before
moving on to the creature with the next lowest hit
points. A creature’s hit points must be equal to or
less than the remaining total for that creature to be
affected.
A beast that is magically bound to a master or
trained only to attack on order is allowed a Wisdom
saving throw against this effect; other beasts are
not. Creatures who succeed on their saving throws
are still deducted from the total number of hit
points of creatures you can affect.
At the beginning of its turn, an affected creature
must make a melee attack against a creature within
reach. If a beast affected by this spell has no

Page 127
creatures within reach, it will move towards the
nearest creature and attack. If it cannot do so for
some reason, the beast attacks an object within
range, which may be the ground or a wall.
The first two attacks by beasts enraged by this
spell are made with advantage.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, roll an additional
2d10 for each slot level above 1st. When you cast it
with a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, you can also
affect abominations, celestials, fey, and fiends that
have assumed an animal form (such as familiars).
“I make it a rule to never upset a druid
when there be dangerous beasts nearby,
no matter how placid the beasts might
appear.”


Unknown Spell 368
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self
Components:  V, S, M (your holy symbol) Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
Any ranged attack made against you for the
duration has disadvantage.


Unknown Spell 369
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 120 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a chunk of obsidian)
Duration:  Instantaneous
A point you choose within range explodes into a
column of lava and flying boulders. Creatures with
10 feet of that point must make a Dexterity saving
throw. Creatures take 3d10 fire damage and 3d10
bludgeoning damage on a failed save and half as
much damage on a successful one. The area around
the point you chose is difficult terrain for 10
minutes after the spell is cast.


Unknown Spell 370
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: Self
Components: V, M (a weapon)
Duration:
Concentration,
up to 1 minute
The next time
you make a
melee weapon
attack during
this spell’s
duration, your
weapon
temporarily
transforms
your weapon
into pure
psionic energy
that ignores
your target's
armor. Instead
of making an

Page 128
attack roll, you force the target to makes a Dexterity
saving throw against this spell. On a failed save, the
target takes the attack’s normal damage and suffers
its additional effects. On a successful save, the
target takes half damage from the attack but suffers
no additional effects that would normally be
imposed on a hit (such as a rogue's sneak attack
damage or a paladin's divine smite damage). This
spell affects target’s in the Border Ethereal as if they
were on the same plane as the caster.


Unknown Spell 371
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a medusa eye)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
Your eyes glow white, forcing anyone who meets
your gaze to relive their worst memories. For the
duration of the spell, you may choose one target per
turn and force them to make a Wisdom save to
withstand meeting your terrible gaze. You may
effect a number of targets equal to your spellcasting
ability modifier. If your target fails their save, they
are trapped in this nightmare vision and are blinded
for a number of rounds equal to your spellcasting
ability modifier. Victims may make Wisdom save
every turn to end the condition. Once someone
makes a successful save they become immune to
this spell for 24 hours.


Unknown Spell 372
Casting Time: 1 reaction, which you take when you
miss with an attack roll
Range: Self
Components: V
Duration: 1 round
As the enemy avoids your blow, you gain a flash of
insight into its weaknesses, one that you or your
allies can exploit. The next attack roll made against
this target before the end of your next turn has
advantage. If that attack hits, it inflicts an additional 2d8 damage of the same type as the
attack.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the damage
increases by 1d8 for each slot level above 1st.


Unknown Spell 373
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self (50-foot radius)
Components:  V, S, M (a pain of glass that has been
blessed)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
As you cast his spell any undead within range must
make a Wisdom saving throw. Those that fail are
surrounded by ghostly white flames for the
duration. These flames do not deal damage, but
they are impossible to miss. Even undead that are
shrouded by illusion, invisible, or obscured within
range are easily visible. An undead may repeat the
Wisdom saving throw at the end of their turn to
escape the flames.


Unknown Spell 374
Casting Time:  1 reaction, which you take when a
creature within 30 feet of you hits one of your allies
with an attack roll
Range: 30 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a weapon)
Duration:  Instantaneous
You raise your weapon defiantly and shout a
magical imprecation at a foe that dares to assault
your comrade.
Make a weapon attack against the attacker. If you
attack with a melee weapon, your reach for this
attack is increased to 30 feet. If the attack hits, it
deals an extra 3d8 radiant damage to the target.
Whether you hit or miss, the target must make a
Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, it is
blinded until the end of its next turn.

Page 129


Unknown Spell 375
Casting Time:  1 action
Components:  V, S, M (a beholder’s eyestalk)
Range: 30 feet
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 hour
This spell functions like arcane eye , with a few key
differences. You can cast any spell of third level or
lower through the eye. The spell cannot have a
range of Self, and the spell behaves as though it was
cast from the location of the eye, rather than your
location.
The eye is corporeal and visible. It has 50 hit
points and an AC of 18. It uses the saving throw
bonuses of the character that cast the spell.
"It amuses me to use this spell against
beholders. Alas, they do not see the
irony.”


Unknown Spell 376
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self (40-foot radius)
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
When you cast this spell, it creates a spherical
storm with hurricane force winds that whip
violently around you in a 40-foot radius sphere
centered on you. However, within a 10-foot radius
sphere also centered on you, these winds are
relatively calm, merely a strong breeze.
Because of the winds, creatures within 40 feet of
you cannot make ranged attack rolls, nor can they
be the targets of ranged attacks. Certain large
projectiles, such as thrown or catapulted boulders,
can be used to attack despite the winds, but even
attacks with such weapons are made at
disadvantage.
Any creature that moves into the area of the
violent winds or starts its turn there must make a Strength saving throw. If they fail, they suffer one of
the following effects, depending on their size and
whether they are flying.
 Medium and smaller creatures are moved 1d4 x
10 feet in a random direction, knocked prone,
and take 1d6 points of bludgeoning damage for
every 10 feet this effect moves them.
 Medium flying creatures are pushed back 1d6 x
10 feet.
 Large creatures are knocked prone.
 Large flying creatures are pushed 1d6 x 5 feet.
 Huge creatures make no progress through the
winds.
 Huge flying creatures are pushed 1d4 x 5 feet.
You can move at half your movement speed while
concentrating on the storm, and it moves with you.
However, if your movement causes the storm’s
winds to cross into a space occupied by another
creature, the creature must make a Strength saving
throw to avoid the spell’s effects.


Unknown Spell 377
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
Your eyes glow a brilliant, fiery green. Every
creature within 10 feet must make Wisdom saving
throw. Creatures that fail are frightened for 1 round.
After the first round, for the duration of the spell,
you can use an action to fire twin bolts of green
energy at any creature in range. A target must make
Dexterity saving throw. They take 8d8 acid damage
on a failed save and half as much on a successful
one.
At Higher Levels.  You can cast this spell using a
spell slot of 6th level or higher,increasing the
damage by 1d8 for each level above 5th.

Page 130


Unknown Spell 378
Casting Time:  1 bonus action
Range: Self
Components:  V, S
Duration:  1 minute
Your eyes take on an otherworldly sheen as you
magically see through deception and obscurement,
and even gain a glimpse of future events. For the
duration, you have advantage on all Wisdom
checks, your ranged attacks ignore half cover and
three-quarters cover, and when you make an attack
roll at disadvantage due to concealment, you gain a
+5 bonus on that attack roll. Until the spell ends,
you can also see invisible creatures and objects as if
they were visible, and you can see into the Ethereal
Plane. Ethereal creatures and objects appear ghostly
and translucent.
Once before the spell ends, when a creature you
can see makes a successful attack roll that would hit
one of your allies, you can use your reaction to force
that creature to reroll the attack roll with
disadvantage. It must use the lower of the two
attack rolls. Once you use your reaction for this
effect, the spell ends immediately.


Unknown Spell 379
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 120 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a bit of Sulphur, and a
charred stick)
Duration:  Instantaneous
Choose a point within range and choose a radius
between 5 and 20 feet. Every creature within that
radius takes 8d6 fire damage and must make a
Dexterity saving throw. Creatures take 8d6 fire
damage on a failed save and half as much on a
successful one. This spell ignores cover.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 6th level or higher, you can choose to increase the damage by 1d6 or increase the radius of
effect by 5 feet for spell slot above 5th.


Unknown Spell 380
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S, M (a rare serpent fang worth at
least 100 gp, which the spell consumes)
Duration:  Until dispelled or triggered
You create a magical trap that takes the form of
massive poisonous fangs when activated. When you
cast this spell, you create a magical trap tied to a
surface (such as a table or a section of floor or wall)
or an object that can be closed (such as a book, a
scroll, or a treasure chest). While casting this spell,
you physically trace the area of the surface or the
outline of the object to be trapped. If you choose a
surface, the area of the surface can be no larger than
20 feet in diameter. If you choose an object, that
object must remain in its place; if the object is
moved more than 20 feet from where you cast this
spell, the spell ends without being triggered.
You decide what triggers the trap when you cast
the spell. For fang trap s placed on a surface, most
typical triggers include touching or standing on the
trapped surface, removing another object covering
the surface, or approaching within a certain
distance of the surface area. For fang trap s inscribed
within an object, the most common triggers include
opening that object, approaching within a certain
distance of the object, or manipulating the object in
a pre-described way. Once a fang trap  is triggered,
this spell ends.
You can further refine the trigger so the spell
activates only under certain circumstances or
according to physical characteristics (such as height
or weight), creature kind (for example, the ward
could be set to affect aberrations or drow), or
according to whether or not the creature has
immunity to poison damage or the poisoned
condition. Unlike a glyph of warding,  it can’t be
made to activate on the basis of alignment. You can
also set conditions for creatures that don’t trigger

Page 131
the fang trap , such as those who say a certain
password. You are unable to trigger the fang trap
yourself.
Any creature that sees you cast this spell knows
the exact area affected, and immediately makes an
Intelligence (Arcana) check against your spell save
DC, gaining advantage on that check. If the creature
succeeds, it also knows what triggers the trap.
Otherwise, the fang trap ’s presence is almost
undetectable and requires a successful Intelligence
(Investigation) check against your spell save DC to
be noticed.
When the fang trap  discharges, the object or
surface grows huge fangs that immobilize the
creature who triggered it. The creature is restrained
until the beginning of its next turn. At the
beginning of its next turn, it must make a
Constitution saving throw. If it succeeds, it is no
longer restrained. If it fails, it takes 2d8 piercing
damage, 2d8 poison damage, and 2d8 psychic
damage, and remains restrained for 1 minute.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 5th level or higher, the psychic
damage increases by 1d8 for each slot level above
4th.


Unknown Spell 381
Casting Time: 1 reaction, taken at any time during
your turn, as long as you have previously taken the
Dash action this turn
Range: 30 feet
Components: V
Duration: Instantaneous
You teleport yourself up to 30 feet.


Unknown Spell 382
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: 60 feet
Components: S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 round For a moment, you hear even distant whispers.
Choose one point within range that you can see.
Until the end of your next turn, you hear as if you
were at that point instead of where you actually are.


Unknown Spell 383
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  1 round
Until the end of your next turn, you know the
location of any aberration within 60 feet of you that
is not behind total cover. If you cast this spell again
when you have already cast it within the past
minute, you must make a Wisdom saving throw
against your own spell save DC. On a failed save,
you take 2d6 psychic damage.
“Given the world of the Eberron’s separation from the
larger multiverse, the Far Realm is unknown there.
“However, in the past Eberron endured a
cataclysmic invasion by alien beings called the daelkyr,
who gave rise to most of the creatures this spell would
detect. Thus, the native mages know the Far Realm
gaze spell as ‘daelkyr gaze.’
“For those who venture into that world’s
Underdark, this spell can mark the difference between
life and death.”


Unknown Spell 384
Casting Time:  1 minute
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S, M (two small boxes made of
rare wood worth at least 500 gp apiece)
Duration:  24 hours

Page 132
As long as the two boxes are within 5 miles of each
other, the creatures carrying them can speak as if
they are right next to each other. This can be
interrupted if one or both boxes are in an anti-
magic shell  or a silence.


Unknown Spell 385
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Until dispelled (varies)
This spell can only be cast on a specific creature one
time. The recipient gains three d20s that it can use
when needed. When it rolls a d20 to make an attack
roll, ability check, or saving throw, it can roll one of
the d20s granted by this spell and use its result
instead. The creature can choose to roll the d20
after rolling the first die, but before it knows the
result. Once the second die is rolled, it can choose
to use either result. Only one extra die can be used
for any one check. Once a die is rolled, it is
expended. Once all the dice have been used, the
spell ends.


Unknown Spell 386
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S
Duration:  1 round
A creature you touch gains the potential to perform
prodigious deeds. Once before the end of its next
turn, when the target rolls an ability check, attack
roll, or saving throw, it can choose to gain a +10
bonus to that roll, and it treats a roll of 19 or lower
on the d20 as a 20. The spell ends when the target
gains this bonus to a roll, or if it hasn’t used this
bonus by the end of its net turn.


Unknown Spell 387
Casting Time: 1 action  Range: 5 feet
Components: V, M (a weapon)
Duration: Instantaneous
As part of the action used to cast this spell, you
must make a melee attack with a weapon against
one creature within the spell's range, otherwise, the
spell fails. On a hit, the target suffers the attack's
normal effects, and the towering fury you display
commands your foe to kneel. You can use your
bonus action this turn to force the target you hit to
roll a Wisdom saving throw. On a failure, the target
takes 1d6 psychic damage, and if it is Large or
smaller, it falls prone. At 5th level, the melee attack
deals an extra 1d6 force damage to the target, and
the psychic damage the target takes on a failed save
increases to 2d6. Both damage rolls increase by 1d6
at 11th level and 17th level.


Unknown Spell 388
Casting Time:  1 bonus action
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (a piece of cold iron and a
drop of holy water)
Duration:  1 minute
You conjure a dark shimmering spectral sword that
appears in your hand. For the duration, you can use
your action to make a melee spell attack using the
blade. On a hit, you can choose one of three effects:
 The blade deals 3d10 necrotic damage to the
target
 The target must make a Constitution save or be
paralyzed until the end of its next turn
 The blade deals 3d4 necrotic damage to the
target and heals you for the same amount


Unknown Spell 389
Casting Time: 1 reaction, which you take when a
hostile creature you can see within 10 feet of you
takes the Disengage action or makes an attack that
does not target you

Page 133
Range: 10 feet
Components: V, M (a melee weapon)
Duration: Instantaneous
You draw on magic of the Feywild to quickly
teleport in order to punish an enemy who ignores
you. When you use your reaction to cast this spell,
you can teleport up to 10 feet to any unoccupied
space where the triggering creature would be within
the reach of your melee weapon. As part of the same
reaction, you can immediately make one melee
weapon attack against the triggering creature. The
amount of damage inflicted by this attack cannot be
higher than your spellcasting ability modifier.
The damage of attacks you make with this spell
increases when you reach higher levels. At 5th level,
the melee attack deals an extra 1d4 radiant damage
to the target. This extra radiant damage increases to
2d4 at 11th level and 3d4 at 17th level. Whenever you
add this radiant damage to the damage of your
weapon attack, the maximum amount of damage
the attack can inflict is equal to the amount of
radiant damage + your spellcasting ability modifier.
“Magic of the Feywild is notoriously untrustworthy,
but the eladrin who created this defensive spell knew
their craft. It efficiently draws energy from their home
plane and enables consistent, limited teleportation in
battle, while requiring no more than a neophyte’s level
of magical power.”


Unknown Spell 390
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
Your fists are shrouded in flame. For the spells
duration, you can make a melee spell attack against
any target within 5 feet. If you hit you inflict 1d8
plus your spellcasting ability modifier. While this spell is active, you cannot cast spells with somatic
components.


Unknown Spell 391
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components:  S, M (a candlewick)
Duration:  Instantaneous
You create fire with only the concentrated power of
your inner rage. Choose any flammable object
within range. If it is not on someone’s person, it
suddenly bursts into flames. Each creature within 5
feet of the point where the fire exploded must make
a Dexterity saving throw. A creature takes 2d6 fire
damage on a failed save, or 1 point of fire damage on
a successful one.
You then choose one creature within the affected
area and make a ranged spell attack against the
creature. On a hit, that creature takes 1d6 psychic
damage and must choose to either immediately fall
prone or take an additional 1d6 fire damage at the
beginning of their next turn.
If a creature has the flammable object you ignite
on their person, you must make the ranged spell
attack for this spell first, and you must make the
attack against the creature with object on their
person. If you hit, it suffers the same effects from
your ranged spell attack described above, and the
object bursts into flames. Each creature within 5
feet of the ignited object must then make the
Dexterity saving throw as normal.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the fire damage
increases by 1d6 for each slot level above 1st.


Unknown Spell 392
Casting Time:  1 action
Components:  V
Range: Self
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You see weak points in your opponent’s armor.
Choose one target. While the spell is in effect, any

Page 134
melee attack or ranged attack you make against that
target ignores any armor and shield bonus to AC.
You may not ignore a creature’s natural armor. If
that target falls before the spell expires, you may
choose another target.


Unknown Spell 393
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a gaff hook)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You reach out with a magically empowered metal
hook, which magically extends and twists to tear
your victim’s organs apart inside its body. The
target must make a Constitution saving throw,
taking 5d6 magical slashing damage on a failed save
or half as much on a success. The agony is
unbearable, and a target that fails its Constitution
save is also poisoned until the end of its next turn.
Whether or not the target fails its saving throw,
on each of your turns for the duration, you can use
a bonus action to try to slash the same target again.
Each time you use your bonus action to do this, the
target must make a Constitution saving throw,
taking 3d6 magical slashing damage on a failed save
or half as much on a success, but suffering no other
effects. The spell ends early if the target succeeds on
three saving throws against this spell.


Unknown Spell 394
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 50 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a piece of sulphur)
Duration:  Instantaneous
Your opponent bursts into sickening yellow flame,
unleashing an unbearable stench. The target must
make a Constitution saving throw. On a failure, it
takes 8d10 fire damage and is poisoned for 1 minute.
On a success, it takes half as much damage and is
not poisoned. A poisoned target can repeat the Constitution saving throw at the end of each their
turns, ending the effect on a success.


Unknown Spell 395
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self (10-foot radius)
Components:  V, S, M (a piece of flint and a scrap
of paper)
Duration:  1 minute
You are surrounded by a green-hued flame aura
that sheds bright light in a 10-foot radius around
you. You have resistance to fire damage while the
aura persists. In addition, a creature that enters the
aura for the first time on its turn or starts its turn
there takes 1d10 fire damage.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 6th level or higher, the fire damage
increases by 1d10 for every two slot levels above 4th.


Unknown Spell 396
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 50 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a silver mirror)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 8 hours
By chanting and concentrating on a fire within
range, you can force every creature within 10 feet of
that fire to make a Wisdom saving throw. Creatures
that succeed are immune to this spell for 24 hours.
Those that fail fall victim to a suggestion , as the
spell of the same name. You must use the same
suggestion for each victim.
“Meddling adventurers who style
themselves ‘heroes’ always seem to gather
their party around a campfire for a
night’s rest before venturing forth.
“Thus, when such interlopers approach
one’s lair, this spell has many creative
and entertaining applications.”

Page 135


Unknown Spell 397
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  1 round
You conjure a minor spirit in the form of a flaming
hawk, which makes a swooping attack against your
foe and then circles above it for a moment to strike
again if your foe's defenses falter.
Make a ranged spell attack against a creature
within range. If the attack hits, the target takes 1d8
fire damage and has the fiery hawk remains looming
above it. If the target provokes an opportunity
attack before the start of your next turn (whether
such an attack is actually made or not), it
immediately takes 1d8 psychic damage and the spell
ends.
The fire damage from this ranged spell attack
increases by 1d8 when you reach 5th level (2d8), 11th
level (3d8), and 17th level (4d8).


Unknown Spell 398
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 120 feet Components:  V, S, M (a piece of coal and a drop of
holy water consecrated by a priest of Tyr)
Duration:  Instantaneous
You must cast this spell after you have successfully
hit a creature and inflicted damage upon it in melee
combat, or the spell fails. If the creature is still in
range and some of the damage you inflicted remains
unhealed, you can cast this spell, and its wounds
burst into flames and engulf it; The target must
make a Constitution saving throw. On a failed save,
it takes 6d10 fire damage, and it catches on fire,
shedding bright light in a 30-foot radius and dim
light for another 30 feet. At the end of each of its
turns, the creature repeats the saving throw. It takes
3d10 fire damage on a failed save, or the spell ends
on a successful one.
When dealing damage to an undead creature
with this spell, reroll any 1 on a damage die.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 6th level or higher, the initial fire
damage increases by 1d10 for each slot level above
5th.


Unknown Spell 399
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S, M (four acorns or eight
holly berries)
Duration:  1 hour
You choose to imbue either up to four acorns or
eight holly berries to create either magical grenades
or firebombs that last until they are used, or the
spell’s duration expires. If you choose to imbue the
acorns, then you can use an action to throw one of
the acorns on your turn; make a ranged spell attack
against a target of your choice within 100 feet; on a
hit, the acorn explodes and deals 4d6 fire damage to
the target.
If you choose to imbue the holly berries with this
spell’s magic, they can’t be thrown effectively, so
they are usually placed in specific locations and
then ignited using a command word. If you are
within 200 feet of one of the holly berries when you

Page 136
speak the command word, it explodes and deals 1d8
fire damage in a 5-foot radius. A creature caught in
the blast radius must make a Dexterity saving
throw. On a successful save, the creature takes half
the fire damage.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 7th level or higher, you can create one
additional acorn or two additional holly berries for
each slot level above 6th.


Unknown Spell 400
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 90 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a pinch of sulphur)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
A glowing yellow coal spurts from your finger to a
point you choose within range, and then bursts into
a 10-foot radius swarm of tiny spider-shaped fire
elementals.
A creature that starts its turn in the area must
make a Dexterity saving throw, taking 4d6 fire
damage on a failure or half as much on a success.
Each round, you can use a bonus action to move the
swarm up to 30 feet. If you do not move the swarm
at all during your turn, at the end of your turn it
moves up to 15 feet towards the nearest living
creature within range.
Any spell of 3rd level or higher that inflicts cold
damage ends the spell if it affects an area that
includes the swarm. If a spell prevents elementals
from entering a certain space (such as a magic circle
spell affecting elementals), it also prevents the
swarm from entering the space.


Unknown Spell 401
Casting Time:  1 minute
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S, M (holly berries)
Duration:  Instantaneous
You touch one closable, inanimate item and
designate a password. If someone opens the item without saying the password, the item explodes in a
ball of flame. Each creature within 10 feet must
make a Dexterity saving throw. A target takes 4d6
fire damage on a failed save, or half as much
damage on a successful one. The item itself takes no
damage from this spell.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a 3rd level or higher spell slot, the damage increases
by 1d6, or you may extend the area of effect by 5
feet, for each slot level above 2nd.


Unknown Spell 402
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 120 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a water skin)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
Choose a point within range. No fire can burn
within 40 feet of that point. Even dragon’s breath or
magical fire cannot burn within 40 feet of that
point.
“I have removed the name of this spell’s
creator. According to the black-robed
elf from a distant world with whom
Mordenkainen and I used to meet with
regularly, the evil archmage had a means
of taking the life energies of those who
sought his knowledge, using them to
sustain his own power. Even after his
death, he continued this vile practice as a
disembodied spirit.
“Thus, I shall not name him here, that no
ambitious young mages might be tempted
to seek him on account of this grimoire.”


Unknown Spell 403
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self (30-foot cone)
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Instantaneous
You breathe a cone of fire, scorching your enemies.
Every creature within range must make a Dexterity

Page 137
saving throw. They take 6d6 fire damage on a failed
save and half as much damage on a successful one.
You may then use your bonus action to teleport to
any empty space in range of the spell.
At Higher Levels. You can cast this spell using a
5th level or higher spell slot. You may increase the
damage by 1d6 or increase the cone by 10 feet for
every spell level above 4th.


Unknown Spell 404
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self
Components:  V, S, M (a pebble inscribed with a
stylized fist design)
Duration:  1 minute
One of your fists transforms into living stone. You
have advantage on grapple checks and ability
checks to break objects with the fist for the
duration.
In addition, your unarmed strikes with the fist
deal 1d6 + your Strength modifier bludgeoning
damage. Your transformed fist is considered a light
weapon with which you are proficient for the
purpose of two-weapon fighting.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, the amount of
bludgeoning damage increases by 1d6 for every two
slot levels above 1st.


Unknown Spell 405
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 150 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Instantaneous
A streak of sparks darts from your finger. Once it
hits the limit of its range or any physical barrier, it
burst into an explosion of bright light. The
explosion can be seen up to 10 miles away in day or
night. Hitting a creature with the sparks is
annoying, but does no damage.


Unknown Spell 406
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S, M (a garnet worth at least
500gp)
Duration:  1 minute
You touch your target and run your hands across
its skin, causing strips of flesh to peel away from its
body. Once this effect has started, only you or dispel
magic can stop it. When you first cast this spell, the
target must make a Constitution saving throw. A
creature who fails its saving throw takes 2d6
slashing damage, and its Charisma score is reduced
by 1. If the save is successful, the creature takes half
the damage, and its Charisma is unaffected.
On each of your turns for the spell’s duration,
you can use a bonus action to further mutilate your
target, and the effects increase each time you do so,
as follows:
First bonus action . The target must make a
Constitution saving throw. If it fails, it takes 4d6
slashing damage, and its Charisma score is reduced
by 1d4. If it succeeds, it takes half as much slashing
damage, and its Charisma is unaffected.
Second bonus action . The target must make a
Constitution saving throw. If it fails, it takes 6d6
slashing damage, and its Charisma score is reduced
by 2d4. If it succeeds, it takes half as much slashing
damage, and its Charisma is unaffected.
Third bonus action . The target must make a
Constitution saving throw. If it fails, it takes 8d6
slashing damage, and its Charisma score is reduced
by 2d4. If it succeeds, it takes half as much slashing
damage, and its Charisma is unaffected. Half of the
reduction in Charisma from failing this last saving
throw is permanent.
If a target’s hit points are reduced to 0 by this
spell, the target immediately dies as the flesh is
ripped away from its bones. The target’s Charisma
cannot drop below 1.
The slashing damage can be healed normally. The
reduction to Charisma can be healed by the
regenerate  spell, by the wish spell, or by resting for

Page 138
48 hours after the hit point damage has been
healed, except for any permanent reduction, which
cannot be healed by anything short of a wish.
“This spell is a favorite of twisted minds
everywhere. I have used it but once, to my
lasting regret. There are some things ye
can never unsee.”


Unknown Spell 407
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
One of your hands sprouts thick bone spikes. It is
useless to hold items or make fine gestures, but it
excels as a weapon. When you swipe the claw
through the air, wounds open on your victim. Make
a ranged spell attack against an opponent in range.
If you hit they take 2d6 plus your spellcasting ability
modifier slashing damage. If you roll a critical hit
then, in addition to the extra damage, at the start of
your next turn the wounds bleeds for an extra 1d4
slashing damage, and the wound will not heal until
it is healed by magic.


Unknown Spell 408
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 50 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a broken bone)
Duration:  Instantaneous
You snap the bone in your hand and your targets
muscles and skin twitch while a terrible crunch
comes from your victim. Choose one creature
within range to make a Constitution save. If your
opponent succeeds the spell fails. If they fail the
save, they are stunned until the beginning of your
next turn. At the beginning of your next turn your
victim takes 8d8 bludgeoning damage and are poisoned for a number of rounds equal to your
spellcasting ability modifier.


Unknown Spell 409
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self
Components:  V, M (a dragon’s wing claw)
Duration:  1 hour
When you cast this spell, small dragon wings grow
from your back and you gain a flying speed of 60
feet for the duration.
If your game uses the optional encumbrance
rules, you cannot fly with this spell while
encumbered.


Unknown Spell 410
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: Self
Components: S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
You move with preternatural grace, leaping onto or
over tall obstacles that impede your foes. Until the
spell ends, you gain the following benefits:
 Your speed increases by 10 feet
 You have resistance to damage from falling
 Your jumping distance is tripled
 You gain a climbing speed equal to your walking
speed
 Your movement is unaffected by difficult terrain
or squeezing
 Spells and other magical effects cannot reduce
your speed.
Once before the spell ends, you can give yourself
advantage on one weapon attack roll on your turn.
That attack deals an extra 1d10 force damage on a
hit. Whether you hit or miss, you gain a flying speed
equal to your walking speed until the end of that
turn.

Page 139


Unknown Spell 411
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 5 feet
Components: V, M (a weapon)
Duration: Instantaneous
As part of the action used to cast this spell, you
must make a melee attack with a weapon against
one creature within the spell's range, otherwise the
spell fails. On a hit, you channel the battlefield
discipline of past heroes to choose one of the
following benefits:
 The next time you make an attack roll before
the end of your next turn, you can roll 1d4 and
add the number rolled to your attack roll.
 The next time an ally of your choice within 5
feet of you is attacked before the end of your
next turn, it can roll 1d4 and add the number
rolled to its Armor Class against that attack.
 As part of the action used to cast this spell, you
can move up to 5 feet without provoking
opportunity attacks.
This spell's damage increases when you reach
higher levels. At 5th level, the melee attack deals
extra force damage to the target equal to your
spellcasting ability modifier. This extra force
damage increases to 1d10 + your spellcasting ability
modifier at 11th level, and 2d10 + your spellcasting
ability modifier at 17th level.


Unknown Spell 412
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 5 feet
Components:  V, M (a weapon)
Duration:  1 round
As part of the action used to cast this spell, you
must make a melee attack with a weapon against
one creature within the spell's range, otherwise the
spell fails. On a hit, the target suffers the attack's
normal effects and takes an additional 1d6 force
damage as links of solid eldritch energy burst from its flesh, binding its bones to the ground. The
creature you hit is restrained until the end of its
next turn.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the initial extra
damage dealt by the attack increases by 1d6 for each
slot level above 1st.


Unknown Spell 413
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You conjure dense, white fog that fills a 30-foot
sphere centered on a point you choose within
range. The fog is thick and clings to anyone in its
area of effect, causing the speed of any creature that
is within the fog's area, enters it, or starts its turn
there, to be reduced by half until the start of its next
turn.
The fog obscures all vision, even darkvision. Any
creature within the fog is heavily obscured to
creatures more than 5 feet away, and lightly
obscured to creatures within 5 feet.


Unknown Spell 414
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S, M (a whistle made of bone)
Duration:  1 hour
You and up to four creatures who are touching each
other when the spell is cast can speak and
understand a secret language that is unintelligible
to others. A comprehend languages or tongues spell
will not decipher the language.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 4th level or higher, the duration
increases by 1 hour for every slot level above 3rd.

Page 140


Unknown Spell 415
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 90 feet
Components: V S
Duration: Instantaneous
You project a ray of shimmering force at a single
opponent when you cast this spell, allowing you to
bring them down without causing lasting harm.
Make a ranged spell attack. On hit, the target takes
5d4 force damage. If this damage reduces a creature
to 0 hit points, you can choose to knock the
creature unconscious instead of killing it. This
choice must be made as damage is assigned if the
creature drops to 0 hit points. An unconscious
creature is stabilized at 0 hit points, as if by the
spare the dying  cantrip.
At Higher Levels.  The damage increases by 1d4
for each slot level above 2nd.
“In crowded cities like Waterdeep, spells such as
force hammer  are of great use in apprehending
miscreants on the street without harming the
surrounding structures or innocent bystanders.”


Unknown Spell 416
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 120 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Instantaneous
You create four glowing orbs of magical force in
your palm, which streak from your hand to hit your
targets. You can direct them at one target or several,
but no two targets can be more than 30 feet apart.
Make a ranged spell attack for each orb. On a hit,
the target takes 2d8 force damage. On a miss, the
target takes 2 force damage.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 5th level or higher, the spell creates
one more orb for each slot level above 4th.


Unknown Spell 417
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: S
Duration: Instantaneous
Choose one creature you can see within range. The
target must make a Strength saving throw.
Creatures of Large size have advantage on this
saving throw and creatures that are Huge or larger
automatically succeed. On a failed save, a creature
takes 1d6 force damage and you can push it up to 10
feet in a straight line away from you. It must end
this movement on a surface that can support its
weight.
At Higher Levels.  This spell's damage increases
by 1d6 when you reach 5th level (2d6), 11th level
(3d6), and 17th level (4d6).


Unknown Spell 418
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self
Components:  S, M (a ranged weapon)
Duration:  Instantaneous
You infuse a rune-inscribed projectile with magic,
making it deliver an impact that belies its size. As
part of the action of casting this spell, you must
make a ranged weapon attack, otherwise the spell
ends. If that attack hits, the target takes an
additional 4d12 force damage, and it is pushed 15
feet away from you and knocked prone.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 5th level or higher, the force damage
increases by 1d12 for each slot level above 4th.


Unknown Spell 419
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V
Duration: Instantaneous

Page 141
As a part of the action of casting this spell, you must
ask a question of one creature within range that can
see and hear you, or else the spell fails. The
question must be phrased so that it can be
answered with a yes or a no. The target must
succeed on a Wisdom saving throw, or it replies
with a truthful answer. A creature that is immune to
being charmed or which does not share a language
with you is not affected by this spell.


Unknown Spell 420
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Instantaneous
You assume an empowering stance and give a loud
shout, rousing your own fighting spirit and defying
fear. Roll 1d6. You gain temporary points equal to
the number rolled, and you add that same number
as a bonus to the next saving throw you make
against exhaustion or becoming frightened before
the end of your next turn. You do not gain these
temporary hit points if you have gained temporary
hit points from casting this spell within the past
minute.
When you cast this spell, you may also choose a
creature within 5 feet of you and force it to roll a
Wisdom saving throw. If it fails, it takes 1d4 psychic
damage. The amount of psychic damage you inflict
with this spell increases by 1d4 when you reach 5th
level (2d4), 11th level (3d4), and 17th level (4d4).
Creature that are immune to being frightened take
no damage from this cantrip.
"One of the joys of magical lore —or
frustrations, depending on how ye view
it—is that no matter how many centuries
of intense study ye devote, some mysteries
yet beckon.
“For me, I think the relationship of the
mystical force known as ki to magic shall
ever be such. Like a bird that flits away
whenever ye come close, whenever I think
the answer is within my grasp, it vanishes in the face of some new wrinkle or
contradiction.
“In certain nations of Kara-Tur, where
an advanced study of ki is made, a battle
cry like the one this cantrip creates is
often called a kiai, and is considered an
achievement of martial skill, rather than
true magic. Perhaps this cantrip was
created to emulate such displays?"


Unknown Spell 421
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You infuse your comrades with the strength of the
earth. Choose six creatures within range. You and
all the selected creatures gain a +2 bonus to AC, and
advantage on Strength checks for the duration.
However, if an affected creature moves from the
space it was standing in when the spell was cast, or
if it jumps, flies, or otherwise leaves solid ground,
the spell's effects end for that creature.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, the bonus to
Armor Class increases by 1 for every two slot levels
above 1st.


Unknown Spell 422
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a cloth bag)
Duration:  Instantaneous
You create a windstorm within a small cloth bag,
and then you unleash it to move yourself and your
allies. Choose any number of creatures within
range. You and each chosen creature may
immediately use a reaction to take the Dash action.

Page 142


Unknown Spell 423
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Instantaneous
You touch and end one mind-affecting condition
affecting the target. You can end the frightened,
charmed, paralyzed, or stunned condition.


Unknown Spell 424
Casting Time:  1 action Range: 60 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
Your hand goes numb and a ray of bright blue
energy leaps toward a creature of your choice that
you can see within range. Make a ranged spell
attack. If you hit the target takes 2d6 cold damage
and is encased in a thick sheet of ice. The target can
breathe, but it is incapacitated and takes 2d6 points
of cold damage every round.
The target or a creature within 5 feet of it can use
its action to make Strength check against your
spellcasting DC to free the target from the ice. Any
fire damage inflicted on the target begins to melt
the ice as well, but the target isn’t free until 20
points of fire damage have been inflicted. Once the
target is freed from the ice, the spell ends.


Unknown Spell 425
Casting Time:  1 reaction, which you take when you
hit a creature with a melee attack using a weapon
Range: 5 feet
Components:  V, M (a weapon with at least one
drop of blood on it)
Duration:  1 round
You bark or whisper a terrifying threat to your
target creature as your weapon strikes. The target
you hit with the weapon attack takes an amount of
additional psychic damage equal to 1d4 + your
Charisma modifier, and it becomes frightened of
you until the end of its next turn.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the psychic
damage is increased by 1d4 for each slot level above
1st.


Unknown Spell 426
Casting Time:  1 reaction, which you take in
response to being hit with an attack roll by a
creature within 5 feet of you
Range: 5 feet

Page 143
Components:  V, M (a weapon)
Duration:  Instantaneous
As part of the reaction used to cast this spell, you
must make a melee attack with a weapon against
the creature who made the triggering attack,
otherwise the spell fails. On a hit, the target suffers
the attack's normal effects and takes an additional
3d6 cold damage. On a miss, the target takes no
damage from your melee weapon attack, but takes
half the extra cold damage it would have inflicted.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, the cold damage
increases by 1d6 for each slot level above 2nd.


Unknown Spell 427
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self (5-foot by 30-foot line)
Components:  V, S, M (a drop of water held in the
palm of your hand)
Duration:  Instantaneous
You breathe out a 5-foot by 30-foot line of frost.
Each creature caught in the line must make a
Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, the
creature takes 4d6 cold damage, or half as much on
a successful one.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, the cold damage
increases by 1d6 for every slot level above 2nd.


Unknown Spell 428
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self (a 15-foot cone)
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Instantaneous
As you hold your hands with thumbs touching and
fingers spread, a thin sheet of frost shoots forth
from your outstretched fingertips. Each creature in
a 15-foot cone must make a Dexterity saving throw.
A creature takes 3d6 cold damage on a failed save,
or half as much on a successful one.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the damage
increases by 1d6 for each slot level above 1st.


Unknown Spell 429
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You create a whip-like beam of frost that extends
outward from your hand. The frost whip has a reach
of 10 feet. As part of the action used to cast the
spell, and by using an action on each of your turns,
you can make a melee spell attack against a creature
within your reach. On a hit, the creature takes cold
damage equal to 1d10 + your spellcasting ability
modifier.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 4th level or higher, the cold damage
increases by 1d10 for every two slot levels above 2nd.


Unknown Spell 430
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 5 feet
Components: V, M (a weapon)
Duration: 1 round
As part of the action used to cast this spell, you
must make a melee weapon attack against one
creature within the spell's range, otherwise the spell
fails. On a hit, the target suffers the attack's normal
effects, and your weapon’s blow inflicts winter’s
wrath, leaving a frosty trail as it cuts through the
air. The next time the target you hit makes an
attack before the end of your next turn, it must
choose either to make the attack with disadvantage
or to take 1d6 cold damage and make the attack roll
normally. A creature within 5 feet of you that takes
cold damage from this spell reduces its speed by
half until the end of your next turn.
This spell's damage increases when you reach
higher levels. At 5th level, the melee attack deals an
extra 1d6 cold damage to the target, and the damage

Page 144
the target suffers for not taking disadvantage on its
next attack increases to 2d6. Both damage rolls
increase by 1d6 at 11th level and 17th level.


Unknown Spell 431
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 90 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a miniature violin bow
made of platinum worth at least 250 gp)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You select a point within range, and a discordant
melody plays eerily to all creatures within a 30-foot
radius. Each creature that starts its turn within the
area must make a Wisdom saving throw. On a failed
save, the creature takes 4d6 psychic damage, and
can’t take reactions. On a successful save, the
creature takes half the damage, and doesn’t lose its
reaction.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 5th level or higher, the psychic
damage increases by 1d6 for each slot level above
4th.


Unknown Spell 432
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a small portion of solidified
milk fat)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
Choose an area the size of a 30-foot cube within
range. Creatures of your choice within the area
must make a Wisdom saving throw or have
disadvantage on Dexterity ability checks and saving
throws for the duration. In addition, when an
affected creature makes an attack roll with a hand-
held weapon and misses the attack by 5 or more, it
drops the weapon in an adjacent space.
An affected creature can try a new saving throw
at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect
early on itself with a success.


Unknown Spell 433
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Instantaneous
You chant words of power as you touch a willing
creature of Large size or smaller or an unattended
object no larger than 10 cubic feet in size, and
instantly teleport it to an unoccupied space that you
can see within 120 feet. You can affect an unwilling
creature by making a successful melee spell attack
as part of the action used to cast the spell.


Unknown Spell 434
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 10 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Instantaneous
You hold out your hand and launch a blue-white
bolt of force. You fire a number of bolts equal to
your spellcasting ability modifier, you may not
attack a target more than once. Make ranged spell
attack, if you hit that target takes 6d8 force damage.


Unknown Spell 435
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a handful of earth)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
When you cast this spell, a circular portal, 10 feet in
diameter, opens over a point you choose within
range. You also choose a second point, which can be
at any location you have previously visited on the
same plane of existence. A second, identical portal
appears at that point.
Both portals are two-dimensional glowing rings
filled with mist, hovering inches from the ground
and perpendicular to it at the points you choose. A
ring is visible only from one side (your choice),

Page 145
which is the side that functions as a portal.
Any creature or object entering one portal exits
from the other portal as if the two were adjacent to
each other; passing through a portal from the
nonportal side has no effect. On your turn, you can
rotate the rings as a bonus action so that the active
side faces in a different direction.
The surface of the first portal is transparent,
allowing you to see what lies beyond; however, the
surface of the second portal is a translucent gray
color. This misty grayness is opaque and blocks
vision through it to the first portal. Nevertheless,
creatures can freely pass through the active side of
each portal for the spell’s duration.


Unknown Spell 436
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 90 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Instantaneous
You fire an icicle at a target within range. Your
target takes 1d4 cold damage and must make a
Constitution saving throw. If they fail, the target is
vulnerable to cold damage until the end of your
next turn. If the target successfully saves they take
damage but are otherwise unaffected. If the target is
immune to cold damage, they make this save
automatically.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, you increase the
damage by 1d4 for spell slot above 1st. If you use a
spell slot of 4th level or higher, the target is
vulnerable to cold damage for 1 minute.


Unknown Spell 437
Casting Time:  10 minutes
Range: Unlimited (see description)
Components:  V, S, M (two gems worth at least 500
gp each)
Duration:  Until dispelled This spell links two specially prepared gems. One of
the gems is usually kept at a safe location, and the
other one carried until it is needed. Once you cast
this spell, you can be transported to the location of
one of the gems by holding the other one in your
hand and speaking its command word as a bonus
action.
You can transport up to six willing Medium size
or smaller creatures with you, none of which can be
carrying gear in excess of their carrying capacity.
Once you transport yourself with this effect, the
spell ends.


Unknown Spell 438
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self
Components:  V, S
Duration:  24 hours
This spell bolsters your ability to create and control
undead. For the spell’s duration, the effectiveness of
your animate dead  spells is doubled.
For example, when you cast the animate dead
spell at its base level (3rd), you can animate two
undead creatures, or reassert control over up to
eight. Likewise, when you cast animate dead  using a
spell slot of 4th level or higher, you can animate or
reassert control over four more undead creatures
for each slot level above 3rd.


Unknown Spell 439
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S, M (a fragment of battle-worn
armor)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You touch a willing creature. Until the spell ends,
spectral armor covers the creature’s skin, and it
can’t have an AC less than 17, regardless of what
kind of armor it is wearing.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 5th level or higher, the minimum AC

Page 146
of the target creature increases by 1 for every two
slot levels above 3rd.


Unknown Spell 440
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components:  V, S, M (an instrument)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 hour
A ghostly instrument appears and starts to play.
Any song you play is matched perfectly by the ghost
instrument. For the duration, you have advantage
on Performance (Charisma) and Persuasion
(Charisma) checks.


Unknown Spell 441
Casting Time:  1 action
Components:  V
Range: Touch
Duration:  Instantaneous
When you cast this spell, you hear all songs sung
within 50 feet of your location within the last day.
You can choose one song to be imprinted on an
item. When you repeat a command word you
choose during casting, the item replays the song.
You cannot use the song to activate bardic abilities
(like the Song of Rest or Countercharm). The item
can only be imprinted with one song at a time.


Unknown Spell 442
Casting Time:  1 bonus action
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (a dragon’s scale)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
A translucent dragon’s tail forms behind you. You
can use an action to attack any creature within 10
feet. Make a melee spell attack, if you hit your
target takes 1d8 plus you spellcasting ability
modifier force damage.


Unknown Spell 443
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 100 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
A powerful and complex gesture of your hands
weaves a bilious yellow ray that lashes out to strike
your enemy. Make a ranged spell attack. If you hit,
your target must make a Constitution save. If they
fail, they are paralyzed for the duration of the spell.
If they pass they are poisoned for the duration of
the spell instead. A paralyzed victim may make a
Constitution save at the end of their turn to end the
paralyzed condition and become poisoned. A
poisoned victim may make a Constitution save at
the end of their turn to end the spell.


Unknown Spell 444
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S
Duration:  1 hour
A sickly green flame erupts from an object you
touch. The flame sheds light like a torch, and any
undead within 40 feet of the ensorcelled object have
advantage on Wisdom saves to avoid being turned.


Unknown Spell 445
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V
Duration: Instantaneous
Sowing the chaos of Pandemonium, you scramble
your speech and the speech of others. Choose one
creature within range that can hear you. The target
must roll a Wisdom saving throw, suffering 2d10
psychic damage on a failed save or half as much on
success. If the creature fails its save, both you and
the creature lose the power of speech until the start

Page 147
of your next turn. For that duration, neither of you
can speak any language (though you can
understand others as you would normally), and
neither of you can cast any spell that requires verbal
components, nor use any spell or other effect that
requires others to be able
to hear you.
At Higher Levels.  If you
cast this spell using a spell
slot of 3rd level or higher,
the psychic damage
inflicted increases by an
additional 1d10 for every
spell level above 2nd.


Unknown Spell 446
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 5 feet
Components:  V, M (a
weapon)
Duration:  Concentration,
up to 1 minute
As part of the action used
to cast this spell, you must
make a melee attack with a
weapon against a creature
within range, otherwise the
spell fails. On a miss, the
spell ends. On a hit, the
target suffers the attack's
normal effects, and the air
shimmers around you as an
illusory duplicate of you
appears in an unoccupied
space of your choice within
5 feet of the target. If no
such space exists, the spell fails.
Until the spell ends, the duplicate persists,
appearing to be a living, breathing, active version of
you. If the target ends its turn more than 60 feet
away from the duplicate, or if you end your turn more than 60 feet away from the duplicate, the spell
ends. The duplicate mimics your actions to a
degree, but no matter where you are, it seeks to
remain close to the target.
If the target ends its turn more than 5 feet away
from the duplicate, the
duplicate moves up to 60
feet to an unoccupied space
within 5 feet of the target.
If no such space exists, the
duplicate moves to the
unoccupied space closest to
the target.
While the duplicate is
within 5 feet of the target,
you can make melee
attacks against the target as
if it were within 5 feet of
you, just as if you were
attacking from the space
the duplicate is occupying.
If you hit the target with a
melee attack roll while it is
within 5 feet of the
duplicate, the attack inflicts
additional psychic damage
equal to 1d6 + your
spellcasting ability
modifier.
While you are within 5
feet of your duplicate,
whenever an attack roll is
made against you, you can
use your reaction to roll a
d20. If you roll an 11 or
higher on the die, the
attack targets the duplicate
instead of you.
The duplicate’s AC
equals your spellcasting
DC. If an attack hits a duplicate, the duplicate is
destroyed. A duplicate can be destroyed only by an
attack that hits it. It ignores all other damage and
effects. If the duplicate is destroyed, the spell ends.

Page 148


Unknown Spell 447
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 5 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Instantaneous
You summon the strength and horrific majesty of a
terrifying princess of the Nine Hells to wreak havoc
upon your enemies. As part of the action used to
cast this spell, you can move up to 30 feet. For each
5 feet you move, you can choose one creature
within 5 feet that you haven’t attacked as a part of
this spell, and make a melee spell attack against
that creature. On a hit, the target takes 8d6 necrotic
damage, and you push it 5 feet away from you.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 8th level or higher, the number of feet
you move as part of this spell is increased by 10 feet
for each slot level above 7th.
“This spell is, of course, named for the
archdevil Glasya, duchess of the Sixth, a
Princess of the Nine Hells, the daughter
of Asmodeus, and —like all her kind —a
terrible host. It is said she first granted
this spell to a warlock who served her via
an infernal pact. Since that time, it has
been adapted for the use of all warlocks,
whether their pact is merely reckless
(such as taking on one of the Summer Fey
monarchs as a patron) or self-
destructively foolish (such as bartering
for power with one of the mad entities of
the Far Realm).
“Despite its widespread use, most
warlocks still prefer to avoid this spell
for its diabolical associations —those
warlocks who have a pact with her being
notable exceptions.”


Unknown Spell 448
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 10 feet  Components: V, M (a weapon)
Duration: 1 round
As part of the action used to cast this spell, you
must make a melee attack with a weapon against
one creature within the spell's range, otherwise the
spell fails. On a hit, the target suffers the attack's
normal effects, and you can teleport to an
unoccupied space of your choice within 10 feet of
you. If you teleport to a space within 5 feet of the
target, the target cannot take reactions until the
end of your next turn.
The damage of attacks you make with this spell
increases when you reach higher levels. At 5th level,
the melee attack deals an extra 1d6 radiant damage
to the target. This extra radiant damage increases to
2d6 at 11th level and 3d6 at 17th level.


Unknown Spell 449
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a pinch of ground mica)
Duration:  Instantaneous
You cause an explosion of glittering dust in a 20-
foot radius within range. Creatures within the area
when the explosion occurs must make a Dexterity
saving throw or be blinded until the start of your
next turn unless they use an action to clean the dust
from their eyes. Invisible creatures within the area
are covered in the dust whether they made the
saving throw or not and can’t benefit from
invisibility until the start of your next turn.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, the radius of the
effect increases by 5 feet for every slot level above
2nd.


Unknown Spell 450
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 300 feet
Components:  V, S, M (incense worth at least 10 gp,
which the spell consumes)

Page 149
Duration:  Concentration, up to 10 minutes
You cause a 120-foot radius of gloom to cover an
area centered on a point you can see within range.
The area suppresses daylight and other light
sources, causing a twilight effect. Areas within the
gloom where light sources are suppressed are
considered lightly obscured for the duration.
Creatures with sunlight sensitivity do not suffer
penalties while within the area and nonmagical
light sources have their illumination reduced to a 5-
foot radius. Spells of lower level than the spell slot
used to cast this spell that produce a light effect are
dispelled when contacting the area or fail if cast
within it.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 5th level or higher, the radius of the
effect increases by 10 feet for every slot level above
4th.


Unknown Spell 451
Casting Time:  1 minute
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S, M (the metal to be
transformed)
Duration:  Instantaneous
You transform up to 500 pounds of metal into the
same amount of silver or gold (caster’s choice). A
transmuter that sacrifices a transmuter’s stone to
power the spell can transform up to 1,000 pounds of
metal into silver or gold, or into 500 pounds of
platinum. The value of each pound transformed is
equal to 50 coins of the same precious metal.


Unknown Spell 452
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 90 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a coalstone, which the spell
consumes)
Duration:  Instantaneous
You crush the coalstone (which you must create
with the coalstone spell), and unleash its heat at your enemies. Make a ranged spell attack, if you hit
you inflict 6d6 fire damage. The target catches on
fire, burning for 1d6 fire damage a turn until the
target or an ally uses an action to douse the flames.


Unknown Spell 453
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S, M (special ink made of the juice
of crushed eyebright, white chalk, and crushed
quartz)
Duration:  1 hour
Using the specially prepared ink, you inscribe a
glyph onto a horizontal surface, which can be a
shield. Once the glyph is completed, it glows with a
bright light for a moment and then fades from view.
However, for the duration, all glyphs, symbols,
magical runes, secret pages, or other magical
writing within 120 feet that are not behind total
cover glow with white light. The glyph of revealing
can be moved safely for the duration without
ending the spell.
This spell reveals magical glyphs and symbols but
doesn’t prevent them from being triggered if
conditions are met.


Unknown Spell 454
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S, M (a mace, staff, or club)
Duration:  1 minute
This spell transforms an ordinary weapon you hold
into a powerful magical weapon that dimly
emanates a purple-hued aura. You are proficient
with this weapon and use your spellcasting ability
modifier for to hit and damage rolls. On a successful
hit, the weapon deals 2d6 bludgeoning damage, 2d6
necrotic damage, and you regain 1d6 hit points.
In addition, if you drop a creature to 0 hit points
with the weapon, you can immediately use your
reaction to teleport up to 30 feet to an unoccupied

Page 150
space you can see.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 7th level or higher, the necrotic
damage dealt increases by plus 1d6 for each slot
level above 6th.


Unknown Spell 455
Casting Time:  1 bonus action
Range: Self
Components:  V
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
After casting this spell, a silvery nimbus of bright
light emanates from you in a 60-foot radius. While
the spell is active, you have disadvantage on
Dexterity (Stealth) checks, but your speed increases
by 10 feet, you gain advantage on Dexterity saving
throws and on all Dexterity checks that are not
Dexterity (Stealth) checks, and any melee weapon
you wield deals one extra die of its damage when
you hit with it.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 5th level or higher, melee weapons
you wield deal one additional extra die of their
damage for every two slot levels above 3rd.


Unknown Spell 456
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 10 feet
Components: V, M (a twisted strip of leather)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
One of your arms becomes a misshapen, bestial
appendage, allowing you to grab your opponents
with an iron grip. Choose an opponent within range
and make a melee spell attack. If you hit, the target
takes takes 2d4 bludgeoning damage and it is
grappled. The DC for any attempt to escape the
grapple is your spellcasting DC.
Until the spell ends, when you do not have a
creature grappled during your turn, you can use
your action to make a melee spell attack against one
creature within range, suffering the same effects if you hit.
For the spell's duration, you also suffer
disadvantage on Charisma (Persuasion) checks.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the bludgeoning
damage increases by 1d4 for each slot level above
1st.


Unknown Spell 457
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a bag of ashes from a burnt
corpse)
Duration:  Instantaneous
You propel a bag of ashes at your foes, which
explodes in a pale cloud that saps the life out of
creatures and transfers it to your allies.
Each hostile creature of your choice in a 30-foot-
radius sphere centered on a point you choose
within range must make a Constitution saving
throw. A target takes 5d8 necrotic damage on a
failed save, or half as much damage on a successful
one. Choose up to six creatures in the same 30-foot-
radius sphere. Each target regains temporary hit
points equal to half the necrotic damage you rolled
(whether any creature fails its saving throw or not).
This spell has no effect on undead or constructs.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 7th level or higher, the necrotic
damage increases by 1d8 for each slot level above
6th.


Unknown Spell 458
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self
Components:  V, M (an item that radiates a magic
aura)
Duration:  Instantaneous
You grip an item that radiates magic as you focus all
your effort into a great shout that sends forth a
tremendous blast in a direction you choose. Each

Page 151
creature and object
(attended or not) in a 90-
foot cone radiating out
from you must make a
Constitution saving
throw. On a failed
save, the creature or
object takes 10d6
thunder damage;
creatures are also deafened for 1
minute. On a successful save a
creature takes half the damage and
isn’t deafened.
A creature made of inorganic
material such as stone, crystal, or
metal has disadvantage on this
saving throw. A nonmagical
object that isn't being worn or
carried also takes the damage if it's in the
spell's area, including walls, pillars, doors, and
gates. The sound of this spell can be heard up to 1
mile away (or farther with a successful Wisdom
(Perception) check as determined by your DM).
However, this spell can be costly and dangerous
to cast. As soon as the spell is cast, you must make a
successful DC 15 Constitution saving throw. On a
failed save, you suffer two levels of exhaustion. On a
successful save, you suffer no ill effects.


Unknown Spell 459
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 90 feet
Components:  V, S, M (an iron bell)
Duration:  Instantaneous
A pealing thunderclap resonates from a point that
you can see within range. The thunderous boom is
audible for 500 feet, and each creature within 20
feet of the chosen point must make a Constitution
saving throw.
On a failed save, the creature is deafened for 1
minute, it is pushed 10 feet away from the center of
the blast, and it is knocked prone.
A deafened creature can make a new saving throw at the end of its turn,
and on a success, it
isn’t deafened.


Unknown Spell 460
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a
peacock feather)
Duration:  1 round
A great ancestral spirit, wielding
the primal life energies of the earth,
watches over a creature you choose within
range, warning it of danger and helping it to take
advantage of opportunities. The creature’s next
weapon attack that hits before the end of its next
turn inflicts an additional 2d6 psychic damage.
In addition, until the end of the creature’s next
turn, attack rolls against it are made with
disadvantage, and it has resistance to necrotic
damage.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the psychic
damage increases by 1d6 for each slot level above
1st.


Unknown Spell 461
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 90 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Instantaneous
A gigantic worm of earth and stone appears under
you opponents, crushing them and dragging them
underground. Choose a point within range, every
creature within 20 feet of that point must make
Strength saving throw. They take 6d10 bludgeoning
damage on failed save and have as much on a
successful one. Creatures that fail the Strength

Page 152
saving throw are drug underground. Characters
drug underground are choking, and may repeat the
Strength saving throw at the end of their turn to
fight their way back to the surface. One on the
surface, the characters can breathe, but are prone.


Unknown Spell 462
Casting Time:  1 minute
Range: Touch
Components:  S, M (acupuncturist’s needles)
Duration:  Instantaneous
By carefully placing needles into precise centers of
ki in a creature’s body, you purge of it of negative
energies. You can cure the target of one disease or
neutralize one poison affecting it, and it regains a
number of hit points equal to 2d10 + your
spellcasting ability modifier. This spell has no effect
on undead or constructs.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a 3rd level or higher spell slot, for every slot level
above 2nd you can choose to do one of the
following:
 Increase the healing by an additional 1d10;
 Cure the target of one additional disease;
 Neutralize one additional poison affecting the
target.
“Acupuncture, the insertion of thin needles into
the body, is a traditional healing technique
practiced in the nation of Shou Lung. Adepts of
spiritual medicine there draw upon ki, the same
natural energy monks employ in their fighting
arts. Only in the century since the Spellplague
has this practice come west, and skilled
practitioners now dwell in many Shou Towns
and other immigrant enclaves across Faerûn.”


Unknown Spell 463
Casting Time:  1 action Range: Self
Components:  V, S
Duration:  8 hours
This spell functions exactly like mage armor , except
that it does not require a material component, you
can only cast it on yourself, and your base Armor
Class becomes 15 + your Dexterity modifier for the
duration.


Unknown Spell 464
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S, M (a miniature cloak)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
Until the spell ends, whenever the target rolls a
saving throw, it can choose to roll 1d6 and add the
number rolled to one saving throw result. It can roll
the die before or after the saving throw. The spell
then ends. After the target has added this bonus a
number of times equal to your spellcasting ability
modifier, the spell ends.


Unknown Spell 465
Casting Time:  10 minutes
Range: 30 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a crushed emerald worth at
least 500 gp, which the spell consumes)
Duration:  Permanent
This spell functions the same as sign of sealing ,
except that it can be used to seal an open space,
such as a corridor, archway, or room. The spell
creates a magical barrier of force that repels any
creature trying to enter or pass the warded area.
In addition, doors and objects protected by this
spell are strengthened, increasing their AC by 2, and
increasing their hit points by 25 (see “Objects” in
chapter 8 of the Dungeon Master’s Guide  for details
on the hit points and AC of objects). Any object
protected by the spell is treated as magic, and has
resistance to bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing
damage from nonmagical sources.

Page 153
If a greater sign of sealing is broken, an explosion
occurs. Each creature within 40 feet must make a
Dexterity saving throw, taking 10d6 force damage
on a failure or half as much on a success.
This spell cannot be bypassed using a knock spell,
but it can be dispelled.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 7th level or higher, the amount of
force damage increases by 1d6 per slot level above
6th.


Unknown Spell 466
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a miniature cloak)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
This spell functions like stone shape , but you may
shape a stone object of Huge size or smaller. The
stone object you touch can be up to 15 feet in any
dimension. You can also mold intricate detail into
your creation, such as a stone set of double doors
carved with intricate designs and up to four hinges.


Unknown Spell 467
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a serpent’s tooth)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You transform any large quantity of water within a
10-foot cube centered on a point you choose into a
deadly poison. This spell only affects bodies of
water of at least 10 gallons or more within the
affected area, not separate smaller quantities of
water. It can also be liquid that is mostly water
(such as blood, sewage, or wine), but a living
creature’s vital fluids cannot be affected. Any
creature with its head or one of its breathing
passages (such as a humanoid’s nose or mouth)
currently submerged into water you have
transformed with this spell must make a make a Constitution saving throw at the beginning of any
turn in which they are so submerged.
On a failure, the creature is poisoned for the
duration, and they take 4d8 poison damage. If the
creature fails the saving throw by 5 or more, its
Constitution score is reduced by 1d4. On a success,
the creature can choose to spit the water out and
take no damage, or continue to swallow it and take
half damage. If the creature failed its save, at the
start of each of the creature's turns before the spell
ends, it must succeed on a Constitution saving
throw or take 3d10 poison damage. On a successful
save, the spell ends.
Creatures who do not need to save against the
spell but who are within 5 feet of the transformed
water can use an action to apply poison to one
weapon, piece of ammunition, or portion of food or
drink. Once applied, the poison retains potency for
the duration of the spell or until someone must save
against it. If a creature is struck with the poisoned
weapon or ammunition, or if it ingests the poisoned
food or drink, it must make a Constitution save or
be poisoned for the duration and take 1d8 poison
damage, or 2d8 if the poison is ingested. If the
creature fails the saving throw by 5 or more, its
Constitution score is reduced by 1d4. Creatures that
succeed on their save take half damage, but suffer
no other effects.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell
using a spell slot of 6th level or higher, you can
affect one additional creature who is drinking at the
same time, and the damage increases by 1d8 for
each slot level above 5th.


Unknown Spell 468
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 300 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
This is a more potent version of whirlwind . The
whirlwind touches the ground at a point you choose
within range. Its area is a 20-foot radius by 60-foot
high cylinder centered on that point. Until the spell

Page 154
ends, you can use an action on each of your turns to
move the whirlwind up to 30 feet in any direction
along the ground. The whirlwind sucks up any large
or smaller objects in its area that aren’t secured,
worn, or carried by any creature.
A creature must make a Dexterity saving throw
the first time on a turn that it enters the whirlwind’s
area, or when the whirlwind enters its space,
including when the whirlwind first appears. A
creature takes 15d6 bludgeoning damage on a failed
saving throw, or half that on a successful one. In
addition, a Huge or smaller creature that fails its
save must succeed on a Strength saving throw or
become restrained within the whirlwind. A
restrained creature is pulled 5 feet higher at the
start of each of its turns while inside the whirlwind
unless it is already at the top. The creature moves
with the whirlwind and falls when the spell ends,
unless it has some means to stay aloft.
A creature restrained by the whirlwind can use an
action to make a Strength or Dexterity check
against the spellcaster’s save DC. On a success, the
creature is no longer restrained, and it is hurled 3d6
x 10 feet in a random direction. A thrown creature
takes 1d6 bludgeoning damage per 10 feet thrown if
it strikes a solid object.


Unknown Spell 469
Casting Time:  1 bonus action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S, M (a bone or skull)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You touch a bone or skull and cause it to glow with
a silver-grey radiance. You may then use your action
to throw the bone or skull up to 60 feet at a creature
you can see. Make a ranged spell attack. On a hit,
the object’s radiance is transferred to the target. For
the duration, the creature can’t regain hit points or
benefit from regeneration from any source until the
spell ends.


Unknown Spell 470
Casting Time:  1 bonus action
Range: Self (15-foot cube)
Components:  V, S, M (an obsidian disc)
Duration:  1 round
You draw forth a small spark of the primal flame
that smolders beneath the earth, allowing life to
flourish in its purifying halo. You and each ally in a
15-foot cube originating from you gain resistance to
fire damage and to nonmagical bludgeoning,
piercing, and slashing damage until the end of your
next turn. The first time each subject of this spell
takes fire, bludgeoning, piercing, or slashing
damage (magical or otherwise) before the end of
your next turn, the creature that inflicted that
damage takes 2d6 fire damage.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell
using a spell slot of 4th level or higher, the fire
damage increases by 1d6 for each slot level above
3rd.


Unknown Spell 471
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: Self
Components: V
Duration: 1 round
You utter a sound of determination as you aim your
ranged weapon at a target. Until the start of your
next turn, your ranged weapon attacks don’t suffer
disadvantage due to the weapon’s range. This spell
doesn’t extend a weapon’s range beyond its normal
limitations.
In addition, your ranged weapon attacks ignore
up to three-quarters cover until the spell ends.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the duration of
the spell increases by 1 round for every slot level
above 1st.

Page 155


Unknown Spell 472
Casting Time:  1 reaction, which you take when an
ally within range who can hear you misses with an
attack roll
Range: 60 feet
Components:  V
Duration:  Instantaneous
You conjure a trickster spirit who distracts an
enemy, allowing your ally to strike true. The ally can
reroll the triggering attack roll with advantage. If
the attack hits, it deals an extra 2d10 psychic
damage.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 6th level or higher, the psychic
damage increases by 1d10 for each slot level above
5th.


Unknown Spell 473
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 90 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a piece of jade worth at least
5 gp)
Duration:  Instantaneous
When you cast this spell, choose a spot within
range. A 10-foot radius by 40-foot high cylinder
centered on that spot is pummelled by falling rocks.
Each creature caught within the cylinder must
make a Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, a
creature takes 5d4 bludgeoning damage, or half as
much on a successful one.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, the bludgeoning
damage increases by 1d4 per slot level above 2nd.


Unknown Spell 474
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 90 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a handful of crystal globes)
Duration:  Instantaneous You create two large hailstones that strike your
enemies. You can direct each hailstone at a different
target, or direct multiple hailstones at the same one,
but no two targets can be more than 30 feet apart.
Make a ranged spell attack for each hailstone. On a
hit, a stone deals 2d6 bludgeoning damage and 2d6
cold damage.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 5th level or higher, you create one
extra hailstone for every two slot levels above 3rd.


Unknown Spell 475
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a holy symbol)
Duration:  Instantaneous
Sparks of holy light streak from your fingertips to
strike your enemies. Choose up to three creatures
within range, none of whom can be more than 10
feet apart. Each target must succeed on a Dexterity
saving throw or take 1d4 radiant damage.
This spell's damage increases by 1d4 when you
reach 5th level (2d4), 11th level (3d4), and 17th level
(4d4).


Unknown Spell 476
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Instantaneous
You have advantage on your next saving throw
versus an arcane spell. You cannot choose not to
use the advantage, and must use against the next
arcane spell that targets you or includes you in its
area of effect. You must complete a long rest before
you can cast this spell again. You may only have one
hand of the sorcerer king active at a time.

Page 156


Unknown Spell 477
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S, M (a viper’s fang)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
A drooling mouth appears on the palm of your
hand. The teeth are small and useless for combat,
but the saliva is highly acidic, and the tongue lolls
out of the mouth, grotesquely looking for victims.
Make a melee spell attack. If you hit you inflict 2d6
plus your spellcasting ability modifier acid damage.
If you roll a critical hit, the target takes double
damage and must make a Constitution saving
throw. If they fail your target is paralyzed for 1
minute. It can repeat the Constitution saving throw
at the end of each of its turn to end the paralysis.


Unknown Spell 478
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S, M (an
ointment made of 50 gp of
diamond dust for each 10
cubic feet of material)
Duration:  Permanent
This spell permanently
reinforces the strength and
durability of materials.
Paper is much harder to
tear, wood is more durable,
and glass is harder to break.
You can touch and affect up
to 50 cubic feet of material
each time you cast this spell.
The material becomes resilient
if it was fragile, and its AC is
increased by 4. If a material is
already resilient, it doubles in hit
points.
For example, if you touch a
resilient section of wooden wall that has 50 hit points, its AC would improve
from 15 to 19, and it would have 100 hit points.


Unknown Spell 479
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  S
Duration:  Instantaneous
Make a melee spell attack against a creature within
5 feet of you. On a hit, the target takes 12d10 cold
damage. If the creature is killed by this spell, it is
petrified as solid ice; if it is broken while petrified
this way, the creature thaws to its original state but
suffers whatever trauma or loss of limbs that
occurred while it was frozen.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this
spell using a spell slot of 8th level or
higher, the cold damage increases by
1d10 for every slot level above 7th.


Unknown Spell 480
Casting Time:  1 hour
Range: Self
Components:  V, S, M (an
exquisitely carved stone heart
made of jade, obsidian, or
gold-veined marble worth
at least 5,000 gp)
Duration:  1 year
When this spell is cast, your
heart is replaced with an
ornately crafted stone heart.
For the spell’s duration, your
living heart is stored in a
special alchemical solution at a
hidden location, which you
have either prepared and
chosen previously, or which
you choose during the casting
of this spell from among

Page 157
locations you have been to in the last 24 hours.
The stone heart grants you resistance to cold, fire,
and lightning damage, as well as resistance to
damage from bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing
weapons.
However, the stone heart also has the following
disadvantages:
 You can only gain a maximum of 1 hit point per
hit die when you heal naturally.
 You instantly die if your living heart is damaged
or destroyed.
 A creature that can see the location of your
heart or is close enough to hear it beating can
find it, but only if they are actively searching for
it. The DC for ability checks to find your heart is
equal to your spellcasting DC.
In addition, the heart of stone  can be dispelled,
which transfers your living heart back to your body,
and sends your stone heart to your living heart's
previous hiding place. If you enter an anti-magic
field, your stone heart and living heart temporarily
switch places, and then switch back again after you
leave the affected area.


Unknown Spell 481
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components:  V, M (the claw of a predator)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You summon a comforting spirit of the sacred
hearth, which manifests as a pillar of flame that
burns enemies but soothes you and your allies.
Choose a space within range,. That space is filled
with a pillar of sacred fire . The pillar is 10 feet tall
and has a 5 foot radius. Any creature in that space
must make a Wisdom saving throw. On a failed
save, a creature takes 3d6 fire damage, or half as
much damage on a success. A creature must also
make the saving throw when it enters that space for
the first time on its turn or ends its turn there.
Whenever a creature that fails its saving throw
takes fire damage from this spell, friendly creatures of your choice within 5 feet of the damaged creature
regain hit points equal to half the amount of fire
damage dealt.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 4th level or higher, the fire damage
increases by 1d6 for each slot level above 3rd.


Unknown Spell 482
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
While casting this spell you touch a piercing
weapon. For the duration, that weapon inflicts a
critical hit on a natural roll of 17-20. The spell ends
once the duration has expired or the weapon inflicts
a number of critical hits equal to your spellcasting
ability modifier.


Unknown Spell 483
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self (20-foot radius)
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Instantaneous
You drain the heat from all living creatures within
20 feet of you. Each creature in the area takes 12d6
cold damage, or half as much on a successful
Constitution saving throw.
The influx of drained heat that you drain from
your victims bolsters your own resilience. You gain
a number of temporary hit points equal to 5 x the
number of creatures that take damage from this
spell.


Unknown Spell 484
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 50 feet
Components:  V, S, M (ashes from a burned bone)
Duration:  Instantaneous

Page 158
You summon the very fires of Nine Hells to scourge
your enemy, burning the soul as well as the flesh.
Choose one target within range. That target must
make a Dexterity saving throw. It takes 10d6 fire
damage on failed save, and half as much on a
success. This damage treats immunity to fire
damage as resistance and ignores resistance.
At Higher Levels. You can cast this spell using a
5th level or higher spell slot, and you inflict plus 1d6
damage per spell level above 4th.


Unknown Spell 485
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 120 feet
Components:  V, S, M (the ashes of a burned
human)
Duration:  Instantaneous
Choose a point within range. Every creature within
20 feet of that point is engulfed in flames from Hell
itself and must make a Dexterity saving throw. They
take 12d6 fire damage on a failed save and half as
much on a successful saving throw. This fire
damage treats immunity as resistance and ignores
resistance.
At Higher Levels.  You can cast this spell using a
8th level or higher spell slot, and it inflicts plus 1d6
damage for every spell slot above 7th.


Unknown Spell 486
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a bladed weapon)
Duration:  Instantaneous
You hurl the weapon in your hand, which is then
animated to bury itself in the flesh of a distant foe
before exploding in flame. Make a melee spell
attack against a target you can see within range. On
a hit, the target takes 8d6 magical damage of the
same type that the weapon would inflict, and the
weapon erupts, forcing the target and every
creature within 10 feet of it to make a Dexterity saving throw. A creature takes 6d8 fire damage if it
fails the saving throw, or half as much on a success.
The weapon appears to be destroyed in the
explosion, but whether you hit or miss, it
immediately reappears your hand.


Unknown Spell 487
Casting Time:  1 bonus action
Range: Self (20-foot radius)
Components:  V, S
Duration:  1 round
You call out to gain the attention of creatures
around you. An enemy within 20 feet of you that
hears this call must succeed on a Wisdom saving
throw or its speed is reduced by half until the end of
its next turn. An affected creature within the area
that is under the effect of haste has that spell
suppressed until the end of your next turn.


Unknown Spell 488
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a melee weapon)
Duration:  1 round
You demand that your foes meet you in battle, then
strike fiercely against one of them. Choose any
number of hostile creatures within range of this
spell. You may pull each target up to 30 feet closer
to you. At the end of this movement, you can make
a melee weapon attack against one creature within
the reach of your melee weapon. If the attack hits, it
deals an extra 3d6 psychic damage, and creature
you hit has disadvantage on the next attack roll it
makes against any creature other than you before
the end of its next turn.


Unknown Spell 489
Casting Time:  1 hour
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S, M (fur of a bear)

Page 159
Duration:  1 week
You touch a willing creature, they fall asleep for one
week. Any conditions or spells effecting the target
are suspended while they are asleep. Once the
creature awakes, they suffer the full effect of any
conditions or spells effecting them. The subject
cannot be awakened by any means once the spell
puts them to sleep. Hit point damage effects the
creature as normal, but the creature will not wake
up. A creature can only be under the effects of one
hibernate at a time. The caster can use an action to
end the spell.


Unknown Spell 490
Casting Time:  10 minutes
Range: 120 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a chip of stone, crushed
lime, and a few grains of sand)
Duration:  24 hours
You conjure a 20-foot square cottage made of stone
that appears as a natural rock formation or similar
natural terrain feature that blends in with its
surroundings. A creature within 30 feet that
investigates the area must make a successful DC 20
Intelligence (Investigation) check to discover the
hidden lodge. The cottage contains a fireplace,
bunks for up to eight people, and a wooden table
and eight chairs. The doors are protected against
intrusion by arcane lock and alarm spells, and the
chimney has a narrow shaft with sturdy bars at the
top.
In addition, an unseen servant provides service to
the lodge’s occupants for the duration.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 6th level or higher, the cottage’s area
increases by a 10-foot square and the DC for the
Investigation check to discover its true nature
increases by 1 for every slot level above 5th.


Unknown Spell 491
Casting Time:  10 minutes Range: 120 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  24 hours
You select a point that you can see within range.
The area is warded against spells from the
divination school of magic in a 200-foot radius from
the point you selected. Find the path cast within the
area automatically fails. A caster who attempts to
cast a spell from the divination school of magic
must make a Wisdom saving throw. On a failed
save, their spell fails. On a successful save, the spell
functions normally.


Unknown Spell 492
Casting Time:  1 hour
Components:  V, S, M (a diamond worth 10,000 gp,
which the spell consumes)
Range: Self, (60-foot radius)
Duration:  Instantaneous
Ghostly images recreate the events of the past,
centered on the spot where you cast the spell. The
amount of detail in the images depends on how
much time you wish to see and hear. When you cast
the spell, you must choose one unit of time to view.
 Days. You view the events of the last 20 days.
You get detailed knowledge of the
conversations, people, and events.
 Weeks. You see a summary of the events of the
past 20 weeks. You will not hear and see
everything that happens, but you will
understand the gist of conversations and events.
You will see important people and events in
greater detail.
 Years. You see the noteworthy events of the
past 20 years. Major participants and events,
like executions, battles, and discoveries, will
play out in greater detail.
 Centuries.  You gain a general sense of the last
500 years. You will only see the most important
events and most remarkable people.

Page 160


Unknown Spell 493
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components:  V
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
As you softly speak the words that finish this spell, a
soft droning sound sweeps out from you. Creatures
of your choice that you can see within range that
can hear you must make a Wisdom saving throw or
fall unconscious. A creature rendered unconscious
by this spell doesn’t awaken unless it takes damage,
someone uses an action to shake or slap it awake, or
the spell ends.
Undead and creatures immune to the charmed
condition aren’t affected by this spell.


Unknown Spell 494
Casting Time:  12 hours
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S, M (a jeweled dagger worth
1,000 gp, and 10,000 gp worth of rare inks and
unguents, which the spell consumes)
Duration:  Instantaneous
In a grueling ritual, you mark one humanoid with
the symbol of Hoar, the ancient god of revenge.
Twenty-four hours after the creature marked by this
spell is slain, they rise as a revenant. The revenant
will remember nothing of its former life, and be
filled with an all-consuming desire for revenge on
its killer. The revenant will kill family and friends if
they attempt to stop it from getting revenge.

Page 161


Unknown Spell 495
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
A glowing mote of energy rises and hovers over your
shoulder, and it sheds dim light in a 20-foot radius.
The first time that a spell that targets you either
forces you to make a saving throw or targets you
with a spell attack, roll 1d4 + 5. If the number rolled
equals or exceeds the level of the spell, that spell
fails to affect you, and is turned back upon its
caster. If that spell required a saving throw, its
caster is now the one who must make the saving
throw against your spellcasting DC; if it was
targeting you with a spell attack, the caster is now
the target of that spell attack using your spell attack
bonus.
For the spell’s duration, each additional time a
spell that targets you either forces you to make a
saving throw or targets you with a spell attack,
repeat the process as above but subtract the level of
any spells previously turned from the result’s total.
If the total still equals or exceeds the level of the
spell, it is turned back on its caster as described
above. If the total is greater than 1 but less than the
level of the spell targeting you, then the holy star
remains, and you are affected by the targeting spell
as normal. However, if the total is reduced to 0 or
below, you are affected by the targeting spell as
normal and this spell immediately ends.
While the holy star remains, you can use your
action on each of your turns to launch a fire bolt (as
the cantrip) from the star at a target you can see
within 120 feet. The fire bolt uses your spell attack
bonus, and deals 3d10 fire damage on a hit.


Unknown Spell 496
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a flask of holy water) Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You select a point within range, and a loud and
blinding rain pours down in a 20-foot radius by 40-
foot high cylinder centered on that point. The area
becomes lightly obscured, and all ranged attacks
made by creatures within the spell's area, or made
against those creatures, are made with
disadvantage.
The rain automatically extinguishes unprotected
flames and has a 50% chance of extinguishing
protected flames such as lanterns. In addition, the
rain causes 2d6 radiant damage to any undead
creature that starts its turn within the area.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 4th level or higher, the amount of
radiant damage to evil creatures increases by 1d6 for
each slot level above 3rd.


Unknown Spell 497
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components:  V
Duration:  Instantaneous
You speak a word that holds holy power from one of
the Outer Planes, power which corresponds
strongly to certain ethical or moral alignments and
inflicts extra damage against certain types of
creatures. When you cast this spell, choose one of
these four planes:
 Elysium (Good):  Aberrations, dragons
(chromatic only), elementals, fiends, or undead.
 Hades (Evil):  Beasts, celestials, dragons
(metallic only), humanoids, or plants.
 Limbo (Chaos):  Constructs, celestials (angels
only), dragons, fiends (devils only), or giants.
 Mechanus (Law):  Aberrations, fiends (demons
only), fey, monstrosities, oozes, or undead.
Creatures within 50 feet of you that are of the types
listed for the chosen plane must make a Wisdom
saving throw. On a failed save, a creature is
frightened for 1 minute or, if it is immune to being

Page 162
frightened, it suffers disadvantage on attack rolls
against you for 1 minute instead. In addition, if a
creature that failed its saving throw is not on its
native plane, it is banished there, and cannot return
for 1 hour. On a successful save, a creature isn't
affected by this spell.
Your alignment (if you have one) may limit your
choice of planar energies when you cast this spell. If
you are evil-aligned, you cannot choose Elysium; if
you are good-aligned, you cannot choose Hades, if
you are lawful in alignment, you cannot choose
Limbo; if your alignment is chaotic, you cannot
choose Mechanus.


Unknown Spell 498
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self
Components:  V, S
Duration:  1 month
When you cast this spell you choose one location
that has emotional weight for you. For the duration,
you know the approximate distance and direction to
that location. You and the location must be on the
same plane of existence or the spell ceases to
function.


Unknown Spell 499
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self
Components:  S, M (a ranged weapon)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
Your weapon buzzes with toxic energy as you infuse
it with magic, and when it strikes your target it
emits a cloud of hornet-like motes that sting your
foe and nearby enemies. As part of the action used
to cast this spell, you must make a ranged weapon
attack, otherwise the spell fails. If that attack hits,
the target takes an additional 3d10 piercing damage,
and attack rolls against it from more than 10 feet
away are made with advantage. At the end of each
of the target's turns before the spell ends, it must succeed on a Constitution saving throw or take 2d10
poison damage. On a successful save, the spell ends.
For the duration of the spell, a creature that
moves within 5 feet of the target for the first time
during its turn or starts its turn there is attacked by
the motes and must make a Constitution saving
throw. The creature takes 2d6 poison damage on a
failed save, or half as much damage on a successful
one.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 6th level or higher, the piercing
damage increases by 1d10 for each slot level above
5th.


Unknown Spell 500
Casting Time: 1 reaction, which you take when you
are hit by a ranged attack
Range: 15 feet
Components: V
Duration: Intantaneous
A hemisphere of extraplanar chaos expands around
you, deflecting incoming missiles or making you a
bigger target. You and every creature within range
of you that is not behind total cover must roll a d20.
The creature that rolls the lowest number becomes
the target of the triggering attack. The attack roll is
compared to the creature's Armor Class normally to
determine if the attack hits.


Unknown Spell 501
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 300 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a sponge)
Duration:  Instantaneous
You select a point that you can see within range,
and a burst of necrotic energy evaporates moisture
within a 60-foot radius from the point you selected.
A creature caught within the area when the spell is
cast must make a Constitution saving throw. A
creature takes 13d6 necrotic damage on a failed
save, or half as much damage on a successful one. If

Page 163
the damage from this spell drops a creature to 0 Hit
Points, it dies, and its body shrivels up, leaving only
dry bones.


Unknown Spell 502
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 120 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You choose a 20-foot-by-20-foot sphere within
range, creating an invisible web of energy in that
area that immediately stops any creature flying or
falling into its strands. A creature that flies into the
web must make a Dexterity saving throw. On a
failed save, the creature’s speed drops to 0, and it is
grappled by the web. However, it can use an action
to make a Dexterity (Acrobatics) check against your
spellcasting DC to break free.
Although the web of energy reduces a creature’s
speed to 0, it isn’t restrained, and it doesn’t fall to
the ground. It is simply held in place in mid-air, and
it can act normally.
“I must admit, it is rather amusing to catch
a dragon this way.”


Unknown Spell 503
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 90 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a length of silver chain)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
A red chain of force wraps itself around a target you
choose within range. The target must make a
Dexterity saving throw to avoid being grappled by
the chain. On a failed save, the target is grappled by
the chain as it twists and writhes around it, causing
the creature to have disadvantage on attack rolls
and ability checks while it is grappled. In addition,
on each of your turns, you can use an action to
make a melee spell attack against the grappled target. On a hit, the target takes 3d6 piercing
damage. The victim can attempt a Dexterity saving
throw at the end of each of its turns to avoid being
grappled by the chain. On a success, the target
breaks free.
If a target escapes before the spell ends, you may
use an action to choose a new target within 30 feet
of the previous one. The chains move to that target,
who must make the Dexterity saving throw to avoid
being grappled. The spell then continues as normal.


Unknown Spell 504
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a troll’s stomach)
Duration:  Instantaneous
Choose one target within range. That target must
make a Wisdom saving throw. If it succeeds, the
spell fails and the target is aware someone
attempted to enchant it. If the target fails the saving
throw, it gains no sustenance from eating or
drinking. The target can eat or drink as much as it
likes, but it gains no benefit, and suffers the effects
of starvation as described in the Player’s Handbook
(page 185). The target may repeat the Wisdom
saving throw each day at dawn. If it succeeds, the
target may eat normally that day. The spell ends
when the target successfully saves three times, or
dies.


Unknown Spell 505
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self (30-foot radius)
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You sing an inspirational tune that bolsters your
allies’ spellcasting abilities. For the duration, when
an ally within 30 feet of you casts a spell, if the spell
requires an attack roll, the ally gains a +1 bonus to
that attack roll. If an ally casts a spell within 30 feet
of you that requires one or more creatures to roll a

Page 164
saving throw during the same turn as the spell is
cast, the DC of those saving throws is increased by 1.
Until the spell ends, if an ally within 30 feet of
you uses a Channel Divinity feature that requires an
attack roll or saving throw, it gains the same
bonuses for that use of Channel Divinity that this
spell would grant for casting a spell.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 5th level or higher, you gain an
additional +1 bonus to the spell’s saving throw DC
or attack roll for every two slot levels above 3rd.


Unknown Spell 506
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Instantaneous
You select a creature that you can see within range
as you evoke swirling cold mists around it; the
creature must make a Constitution saving throw.
On a failed save, it takes 2d10 cold damage and
suffers one level of exhaustion. On a successful save,
the creature takes half the cold damage, and doesn’t
suffer from exhaustion.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 5th level or higher, the cold damage
increases by 1d10 for every slot level above 4th.


Unknown Spell 507
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 5 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a shard of ice, glass, or
crystal)
Duration:  1 minute
When you cast this spell, a battleaxe of swirling ice
appears in your hand. You are proficient with the
axe, and you can use your spellcasting ability
instead of Strength for the attack and damage rolls
of melee attacks using it. On a hit, a target takes
1d12 cold damage in addition to the axe’s magical
slashing damage. You cannot be disarmed of the ice axe  for the
duration of the spell—if you are forced to drop it, it
flies back to your hand immediately.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 5th level or higher, the cold damage
increases by 1d12 for every two slot levels above 3rd.


Unknown Spell 508
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 120 feet
Components:  V, S, M (white leather glove and a
piece of clear rock crystal)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
When you cast this spell, a large reptilian-like
claw surrounded by a cold chill appears in an
unoccupied spot of your choice within range.
On the turn you cast this spell, and on each of
your turns for the spell’s duration, you can use a
bonus action to direct the claw to move up to 30
feet and make one grapple attack against a creature.
The claw’s bonus for the grapple check is equal to 7
+ your spellcasting ability modifier. A grappled
creature is also restrained, and takes 2d6 cold
damage at the start of each of its turns.
The claw can be attacked. It has an AC of 20, and
a number of hit points equal to your normal hit
point maximum. In addition, the claw makes saving
throws using your bonuses, but has immunity to
cold damage, and vulnerability to fire.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 8th level or higher, the claw’s grapple
bonus and Armor Class both increase by 1, and the
amount of cold damage increases by 1d6 for each
slot level above 7th.


Unknown Spell 509
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a clear crystal worth at least
50 gp)
Duration:  Instantaneous

Page 165
A large spear-like shard of ice appears in the air
next to you. Choose a target within range, and make
a ranged spell attack. If the attack hits, the target
takes 3d6 piercing damage, and 3d6 cold damage. In
addition, the target must make a Constitution
saving throw, or be stunned until the end of its next
turn.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 4th level or higher, the amount of cold
and piercing damage both increase by 1d6 for each
slot level above 3rd.


Unknown Spell 510
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 5 feet
Components: V, M (a weapon)
Duration: Instantaneous
As part of the action used to cast this spell, you
must make a melee attack with a weapon against
one creature within the spell's range, otherwise, the
spell fails. On a hit, the target suffers the attack's
normal effects, and your weapon takes on an aspect
of iconic fear, striking dread into your foe while
emboldening a close ally. You can immediately push
the target up to 5 feet away from you.
When you push a creature with this spell, one ally
of your choice within 5 feet of you can immediately
use its reaction to move up to 10 feet. If the target
starts its next turn within 5 feet of that ally, the
target takes additional psychic damage equal to
your spellcasting ability modifier.
Creatures that are immune to the frightened
condition take no psychic damage from this spell.
This spell's damage increases when you reach
higher levels. At 5th level, the melee attack deals an
extra 1d8 necrotic damage to the target, and the
psychic damage increases to 1d8 + your spellcasting
ability modifier. Both damage rolls increase by 1d8
at 11th level and 17th level.


Unknown Spell 511
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S, M (a blank scroll, on which you
write with ink mixed with blood during the casting)
Duration:  Instantaneous
You grant an undead servant the ability to cast a
spell you know one time. Choose a spell you could
cast using a spell slot. You sacrifice the spell slot
you would use to cast it, and the undead creature
you touch gains the ability to cast that spell once
before the next time you finish a long rest. You
cannot force the undead to cast the spell unless you
have some other means of controlling it.


Unknown Spell 512
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S, M (a pinch of salt)
Duration:  24 hours
The target becomes immune to diseases and
poisons for 24 hours. This grants immunity to
poison damage and the poisoned condition, as well
as the effects of actual poisons and diseases,
whatever those effects may be. The target is
immune even if the disease or poison is magical.
Any poison or disease already in the target is placed
in a form of stasis until the spell ends, then resumes
just as if the spell was never cast.


Unknown Spell 513
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  S
Duration:  1 hour, or Instantaneous

Page 166
You touch a creature and impart it with specific
knowledge that you choose. The knowledge appears
as images accompanied with phrases from your
memory or from your own knowledge. There are
two different durations depending on the
knowledge you impart. For simple conveyance of
information, the duration is instantaneous and the
creature you touch can learn information that you
know about a specific person or subject.
Alternatively, the creature you touch can
temporarily learn one skill that you are proficient
with; for 1 hour, the creature is also proficient with
that skill.


Unknown Spell 514
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 90 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Instantaneous
Your targets stand perfectly still for a moment, then
fold into themselves with a disgusting SPLURCH!
Choose four targets within range. Each target must
make a Constitution saving throw. On a failed save,
a target’s Constitution score is reduced by 4d6. If a
creature’s Constitution is reduced to 0 in this way, it
twists into a bloody sack of torn muscle and cracked
bone, and dies. A creature that fails its saving
throw, but survives the reduction of its
Constitution, is poisoned until it finishes a long
rest. Such a creature regains its normal Constitution
score when it completes a long rest.
If a target succeeds on the Constitution saving
throw, it suffers no ill effects.


Unknown Spell 515
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S
Duration:  1 hour
You can only cast this spell on a willing subject. As
part of casting the spell the subject must name an item they own, and are familiar with. This item
cannot weigh more than 10 pounds. For the
duration, as long as that item is within 1 mile, you
can call that item to you as a bonus action. The item
appears in the nearest empty space, or in your hand,
whichever you choose. You and the item must be on
the same plane for the spell to function.


Unknown Spell 516
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S
Duration:  12 hours
The target you touch is protected from the next
attack that would take it to 0 hit points. An attack
must deal at least 1 hit point of damage to trigger
this spell’s effect. The recipient is reduced to 1 hit
point instead, but is otherwise unharmed. If the
attack incapacitates the victim another way, then
the spell has no effect.
“Most useful when ye are undertaking an
escort mission.”


Unknown Spell 517
Casting Time:  1 bonus action
Range: 90 feet
Components:  V, S, M (the petrified eye of a newt)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 hour
You recite a deadly cursing dirge, predicting
impending doom for a creature you can see within
range. You place this curse upon the chosen
creature, and until the spell ends, your attacks deal
an extra 1d8 psychic damage against it. Also,
whenever the target misses you with an attack roll
during its turn, it takes 1d8 psychic damage, and
must make a Wisdom saving throw. On a failure, it
is frightened of you until the start of its next turn.
If the target drops to 0 hit points before this spell
ends, you can use a bonus action on your next turn

Page 167
to place the curse upon a new creature. When you
move the curse in this way if the newly cursed
creature saw the previous target drop to 0 hit
points, it takes 4d10 psychic damage and is
frightened until the start of its next turn.
Creature with immunity to the frightened
condition have resistance to psychic damage from
this spell.


Unknown Spell 518
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 5 feet
Components: V, M (a weapon)
Duration: 1 round
As part of the action used to cast this spell, you
must make a melee attack with a weapon against
the target, otherwise the spell fails. On a hit, the
target suffers the attack's normal effects, and it has
disadvantage on the next attack roll it makes for an
opportunity attack before the start of your next
turn.
If you moved at least 10 feet in a straight line
towards the target immediately before casting this
spell, your weapon attack inflicts an additional 1d4
force damage on a hit, and your allies are
psychically inspired to charge the same foe with the
relentless force of the incoming tide. Until the start
of your next turn, the first time each turn that an
ally hits the target with a melee weapon attack, if
that ally moved at least 10 feet in a straight line
immediately before making that attack, the target
takes additional psychic damage equal to your
spellcating ability modifier.
The extra force damage inflicted by your initial
attack for this spell increases by 1d4 when you reach
5th level (2d4), 11th level (3d4), and 17th level (4d4).
The psychic damage does not increase.


Unknown Spell 519
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 120 feet Components:  V, S, M (the mummified finger of a
humanoid who froze to death)
Duration:  Instantaneous
You call spirits of death and winter, commanding
them to surround a foe to sap its vitality. Choose
one creature you can see within range. The creature
takes 2d12+20 cold damage, and it must make a
Wisdom saving throw. If the save fails, the creature
takes necrotic damage equal to the amount of cold
damage it took from this spell, and the next time it
makes a saving throw before the end of its next
turn, the target must roll a d6 and subtract the
number rolled from the attack roll or saving throw.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 7th level or higher, the cold damage
increases by 1d12 for each slot level above 6th.


Unknown Spell 520
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S, M (dried fly eggs)
Duration:  Instantaneous
At your touch, maggots begin writhing out of your
enemy’s flesh. Make a melee spell
attack. If you hit, the target
takes 4d10 necrotic
damage and must make
Wisdom save. On a
failure, it is
frightened of
you for 1
minute. At
the end
of each
of its
turns, it can
make a
Wisdom
saving throw.
On a success, it
is no longer
frightened.

Page 168


Unknown Spell 521
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self
Components: V
Duration: 8 hours
You create a magical memory palace, a mnemonic
device that focuses all the information in your mind
and allows a sudden flash of future insight. Once
during the duration, when you make an Intelligence
(Investigation, Nature, or History) check or
Wisdom (Insight, Perception, or Survival) check
and dislike the result, you can choose to resolve that
check as if you had rolled a 20 on the die. When you
do so, the spell ends. This spells ends early if you
cast it again, or if you are reduced to 0 hit points.
Casitng Time: 1 action
Range: 50 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a few shark teeth)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You choose one creature within range and force
them to make a Wisdom saving throw. If they fail
they are filled with the uncontrollable desire to
drink. The creature will not knowingly drink poison
or any other liquid that is detrimental to them. The
target will use its action on its turn to drink any
potable liquid it possesses. If the creature doesn’t
have any potable liquid in its possession, it will use
all its actions to try and find some. The target may
repeat the Wisdom saving throw at the end of their
turn to end the spell.


Unknown Spell 522
Casting Time:  1 bonus action
Range: Self
Components:  V
Duration:  1 round With a flourish you feint one-way, and then
another, leaving your target’s defenses more
vulnerable to your next attack. You have advantage
on the next melee weapon attack roll you make
against the target before the start of your next turn.
On a hit, the target takes an extra 1d6 damage, of
the weapon’s damage type.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the damage
increases by 1d6 for every slot level above 1st.


Unknown Spell 523
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: Self
Components: V
Duration: 1 round
You take on a ferocious, menacing demeanor,
focusing your mastery of fear on a creature of your
choice within range. Make a ranged spell attack
against the target. On a hit, the target takes 3d8
psychic damage, and it is frightened of you until the
end of your next turn. This spell has no effect on
undead or constructs.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the damage
increases by 1d8 for each slot level above 1st.


Unknown Spell 524
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 10 feet
Components: V, S, M (a weapon)
Duration: Instantaneous
You crush your foe's flesh and hammer its mind
with the same punishing strike. Make a melee spell
attack against a target within range. On a hit, the
target takes 3d12 force damage, and if it ends its
next turn within 5 feet of you or one of your allies, it
takes psychic damage equal to 1d12 + your
spellcasting ability modifier.
In addition, the target you hit must succeed on a
Wisdom saving throw or become frightened of you

Page 169
for 1 minute. The frightened target can repeat the
saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending
the effect on itself on a success. Undead, constructs,
and creatures immune to being frightened
automatically succeed on the saving throw.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 5th level or higher, the force damage
and psychic both increase by 1d12 for every two slot
levels above 4th.


Unknown Spell 525
Casting Time:  10 minutes
Range: Self
Components:  V, S, M (an elixir made with rare
herbs worth 1000 gp, which the spell consumes)
Duration:  Until triggered
Select a location you have previously visited, which
can be on any plane of existence. As the same time,
you also choose up to six conditions that trigger this
spell’s effect. Whenever one of the chosen
conditions occurs, you are instantly teleported to
the location you chose. No creatures can be brought
with you, but everything you are carrying on your
person that is not a creature is teleported as well.


Unknown Spell 526
Casting Time:  1 bonus action
Components: V, S
Range: Self
Duration:  1 round
You may make either a Wisdom (Perception) or
Intelligence (Investigation) check with advantage
when searching a room.


Unknown Spell 527
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute You select a target within range. The creature must
make a Constitution saving throw. On a failed save,
the creature is vulnerable to the energy type you
select (acid, cold, fire, lightning, or thunder) for the
duration of the spell. If the saving throw is
successful, the spell ends.
If a creature is immune to the selected damage
type, but fails its saving throw, it is affected, and it
is no longer immune to that damage type. Instead,
it has resistance to the damage type for the duration
of the spell.


Unknown Spell 528
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 10 minutes
You use the energies of your own disciplined mind
to protect yourself and others against psychic
attack. You and any creatures of your choice within
the range of this spell when you cast it gain the
following benefits for the duration of the spell:
 You and the chosen creatures gain advantage on
Intelligence, Wisdom, and Charisma saves
 You and the chosen creatures gain resistance to
psychic damage


Unknown Spell 529
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 5 feet
Components: V, M (a weapon)
Duration: 1 round
As part of the action used to cast this spell, you
must make a melee attack with a weapon against
one creature within the spell's range, otherwise the
spell fails. You can use your spellcasting ability
instead of Strength for the attack roll and damage
roll of this attack.
On a hit, the target suffers the attack's normal
effects, and its moment of pain gives you an
opening to search your target's mind. sensing its

Page 170
intentions until the start of your next turn. Until
then, the target cannot benefit from the disengage
action, and it cannot benefit from advantage on
melee attack rolls against you. In addition, for the
duration, if you and the target share a language, you
can communicate telepathically with it as long as it
is within 30 feet.
The damage of attacks you make with this spell
increases when you reach higher levels. At 5th level,
the melee attack deals an extra 1d6 psychic damage
to the target. This extra damage increases to 2d6 at
11th level and 3d6 at 17th level.


Unknown Spell 530
Casting Time:  1 bonus action
Range: 90 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 hour
With a moment’s concentration, you sense which
way is true north. Until this cantrip ends, you
always know which way is north and cannot
become lost except by magical means. If you make a
Wisdom or Intelligence check to navigate natural
terrain, you may choose to roll a d6 and add the
number rolled to your result. If you do so, the spell
ends immediately.


Unknown Spell 531
Casting Time:  1 action
Components:  V, S, M (a pair of linked platinum
rings)
Range: Unlimited
Duration:  24 hours
This spell functions like telepathy, with the
following exceptions. You and the target do not
have to be on the same plane. If the target does not
want to communicate with you, it must make a
Wisdom saving throw. If they succeed, the spell
fails. The target must have Intelligence of at least 3
and cannot be dead.


Unknown Spell 532
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self (30-foot cone)
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Instantaneous
You project the power of your own darkest thoughts
against enemies in your path. Each creature of your
choice within a 30-foot cone must make an
Intelligence saving throw. A creature takes 4d8
psychic damage on a failed save, or half as much
damage on a successful one. Creatures who fail the
saving throw cannot take reactions until the end of
your next turn.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 4th level or higher, the psychic
damage increases by 1d8 for each slot level above
3rd.
“A slave of the mind flayers, who found her sorcerous
potential awakened when she was subjected to a hideous
experiment, created this spell while still in bondage. She
based it on the mind blasts of her illithid captors, and
used it to turn the tables on them before escaping.
“It is unclear whether the mind flayers considered
the experiment a failure or a success, as they did not
survive their specimen’s assault.”


Unknown Spell 533
Casting Time:  1 bonus action
Range: Self
Components:  V, M (a melee weapon)
Duration:  Instantaneous
If you have not already hit a creature with a melee
attack this turn, this spell fails. Otherwise, you
regain a number of hit points equal to 1d8 + your
spellcasting ability modifier. If a weapon you hit a

Page 171
creature with this turn had the two-handed or
versatile qualities, the number of hit points you
regain increases to 1d12 + your spellcasting ability
modifier.


Unknown Spell 534
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  S, M (a small piece of iron ore)
Duration:  1 hour
The creature touched is unaffected by spells with a
charm effect nor is it affected by hold person or
hold monster spells. In addition, the recipient has
advantage on saving throws against effects that
cause fear.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 5th level or higher, the duration
increases by 1 hour for every two slot levels above
3rd.


Unknown Spell 535
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (a silk scarf)
Duration:  1 round
You seize a silk scarf and lash it towards your
enemy, causing it to magically extend and becomes
as hard as iron on impact. Make a melee spell attack
against a target you can see within range. On a hit,
the target takes 3d6 bludgeoning damage, and is
restrained until the end of your next turn by the
scarf, which wraps around it like a constricting
snake.
A creature restrained by the scarf can use its
action to make a Strength check against your spell
save DC. On a success, it frees itself. As soon as the
scarf is no longer restraining a target, it snaps back
onto your person and resumes its normal size, and
the spell ends.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a 2nd level or higher spell slot, the damage increases by ld6 for each slot level above 1st. If the
spell slot is 5th level or higher, the range increases
to 60 feet.


Unknown Spell 536
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components:  V, M (the claw of a predator)
Duration:  Instantaneous
You summon the spirit of a clawed predator, which
latches onto your foe and twists it off balance,
leaving it open to an ally's attack. Choose one
creature in range, which must make a Dexterity
saving throw. The creature takes 2d10 slashing
damage on a failure, or half as much on a success. If
it fails, it also provokes an opportunity attack from
one or two creatures of your choice within 5 feet of
it.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the damage
increases by 1d10 for each slot level above 1st.


Unknown Spell 537
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S, M (a tiny shield of wood, glass,
or crystal)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
This spell functions like lesser ironguard, except the
person touched is immune to both nonmagical and
magically imbued metals.


Unknown Spell 538
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S, M (a vial of mixed poisons)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 hour
The target has advantage on all saving throws to
resist poison and resistance to poison damage.

Page 172


Unknown Spell 539
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: 1 round
You control the energy of your spells to reduce
possible harm to your allies. Any number of
creatures of your choice within range gain
resistance to damage from spells you cast until the
end of your next turn.


Unknown Spell 540
Casting Time:  1 minute
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S, M (a diamond worth at least
1,000 gp)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 24 hours
You may only cast this spell on a structure no bigger
than a 20-foot cube. For the duration of the spell,
that structure is resistant to all damage. A structure
can only be under the effect of one Jaggar’s
Strengthened Bastion at a time. If this spell is cast
on a structure every day for a year, it becomes
permanent.
At Higher Levels. You can cast this spell using a
7th or higher level spell slot. If you cast this spell
using a 7th level spell slot if effects a structure up to
a 200-foot cube. If you cast this spell using a 9th
level spell slot, it effects a structure that can fill up
to a 2,000-foot cube.


Unknown Spell 541
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self
Components:  V
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute For the duration of the spell, you can cast any spell
of 2rd level or less with no verbal or somatic
components. If the spell does not require any
material components worth 50 gold pieces or more
then you can cast the spell with no components.


Unknown Spell 542
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 120 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a javelin)
Duration:  Instantaneous
You imbue a javelin you are holding with magical
energy. Make a ranged spell attack with the javelin.
On a hit,the target takes 10d10 force damage.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 7th level or higher, the damage
increases by 1d10 for each slot level above 6th.
“This is an ancient spell of the southern magic
tradition, created in the region known as the Old
Empires, which includes Chessenta, Mulhorand,
and Unther. These spells were preserved over
millennia with the help of Thoth mage-script, a
secret magic language usable by the initiated.
“It is said the spells of this tradition were
brought to the Realms by the Mulan people, who
were brought from another world as slaves by the
wizard-lords of the Imaskar Empire.
“This cruel endeavor ended Imaskari.
Centuries later, the gods of the Mulan would
follow, killing the Lord Artificer and the wizard-
lords as their enslaved people rose in rebellion.”


Unknown Spell 543
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 50 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a canine from a wolf)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute

Page 173
A pair of slavering jaws, slightly
larger than a human head appear
beside you. You may use a bonus
action to command the jaws to
attack a target within range. Make a
ranged spell attack. If you hit the
target takes 1d8 plus your
spellcasting ability modifier piercing
damage. For the duration, you may
use a bonus action to attack the
same target it attacked last turn. The
jaws may only attack a different
target once the first one dies.


Unknown Spell 544
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components:  V, S, M (wire
wrapped around a small piece of
ivory)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1
minute
Choose one target within range.
That target must make a Wisdom
saving throw. If they fail your target
is paralyzed for the duration of the
spell. While the target is paralyzed,
you may use a bonus action to ask
the target a yes or no question. The target must
answer truthfully to the best of its ability. You may
ask one question per round. The target may repeat
the Wisdom saving throw at the end of their turn to
end the spell. The spell ends automatically if the
target takes any damage.


Unknown Spell 545
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, M (a ranged weapon)
Duration: Instantaneous As part of the action used to cast this spell, you
must make a ranged weapon attack against a
creature within range, otherwise the spell fails. On a
hit, the target suffers the attack's normal effects,
and your enchanted shot renders your foe
unaccountably clumsy. It has disadvantage on the
next attack roll it makes before the start of your
next turn. If that attack misses, it falls prone and
the spell ends.
This spell's damage increases when you reach
higher levels. At 5th level, the attack deals an extra
1d4 psychic damage to the target. This extra damage
increases to 2d4 at 11th level and 3d4 at 17th level.

Page 174


Unknown Spell 546
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You utter words of defiance as you touch and
bestow misfortune upon a creature within 5 feet.
Make a melee spell attack. On a hit, the target has
disadvantage the next ability check, attack roll, or
saving throw it makes during the spell’s duration.
After the outcome of the roll is determined, the
spell ends.


Unknown Spell 547
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 90 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a bottle carved of obsidian)
Duration:  Permanent
Spitting, you curse a creature, causing its body to
become more rigid, and whorls of wood grain to
appear on its skin as it begins a slow transformation
into a tree. Choose a creature within your range
that is not undead or a construct, which must make
a Wisdom saving throw . On a failure, you curse the
creature with a hardening of the limbs and skin as
its flesh slowly turns to wood, inflicting the
following effects upon it for the duration :
 Any speed it has becomes 5 feet, unless the
speed was lower.
 It has disadvantage on Dexterity checks and
Dexterity saving throws.
At the end of each of the target’s turns, it must
make a Wisdom saving throw. After succeeding on
three of these saving throws, the creature defeats
the curse, and the spell ends. After failing three of
these saving throws, the creature stops making
these saves, and it becomes a tree, replacing the
previous effects of the curse with the following,
which last for the duration :
 Its creature type becomes plant  It is restrained
 Its size becomes Large unless it was already
larger
 Its reach with melee attacks increases to 10 feet
 It has disadvantage on Dexterity checks and
Charisma checks
 It cannot speak any language
 It is indistinguishable from a normal tree unless
it moves
Every morning at dawn, the creature must make
another Wisdom saving throw. Whenever it
succeeds, it regains the ability to speak until the
next time it fails the saving throw. If it succeeds on
two of these saving throws in a row, the spell ends.
A greater restoration  spell can also end this spell.


Unknown Spell 548
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self (100-foot line)
Components:  V, S, M (a pinch of ash from a burnt
plant)
Duration:  Instantaneous
Invisible destructive energy springs silently forth
from you in a direction you choose, destroying
natural life in a line 100 feet long and 5 feet wide
and leaving a path of ash in its wake. Creatures of
your choice within the area must make a
Constitution saving throw, taking 3d8 necrotic
damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on
a successful one. This spell has no effect on undead
or constructs.
Magical plants or creatures of the beast, fey, or
plant types damaged by this spell take additional
force damage equal to the necrotic damage. Any
nonmagical plant in the spell’s area that isn't a
creature, such as a tree or shrub, doesn't make a
saving throw, it simply withers and dies.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 4th level or higher, the necrotic
damage increases by 1d8 for each slot level above
3rd.

Page 175


Unknown Spell 549
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 hour
You speak and bestow an ancient blessing upon
either a melee or ranged weapon that you touch.
For the duration, attack rolls with the magically
imbued weapon score a critical hit with a roll of 19
or 20 on the die. This spell can only be cast on
weapons that deal piercing or slashing damage.


Unknown Spell 550
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a piece of dried seaweed)
Duration:  Instantaneous
You stretch out your hand and a long strand of wet
kelp streaks out to envelop your foe and bring the
creature to your grasp. Make a ranged spell attack
against the target. On a hit, the target takes 2d10
bludgeoning damage, and you can pull it up to 30
feet closer to you. If the target ends this movement
within 5 feet of you, the target is grappled by you,
just as if you had made a successful grapple attack
against it.
A creature you grapple with this spell can use its
action to escape. To do so, it must succeed on a
Strength (Athletics) or Dexterity (Acrobatics) check
against your spellcasting DC.
When you move, you can drag or carry the
grappled creature at half your speed. You can move
at your full speed if the creature is at least two sizes
smaller than you.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, the bludgeoning
damage increases by ld10 for each slot level above
2nd.


Unknown Spell 551
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: Self
Components: V
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
You know how to say the right things to get the best
reaction from the right people, especially when
those people are city officials. The next time you
make a Charisma (Performance or Persuasion)
check during this spell's duration, you have
advantage on the d20 roll. If you are within 100 feet
of any settlement that has a population of at least 25
humanoids when you make the Charisma check,
you can also reroll one of the dice once. As soon as
the Charisma check is resolved, the spell ends.


Unknown Spell 552
Casting Time:  1 bonus action
Range: 30 feet
Components:  V, S, M (A crystal lens worth at least
1,500 gp, which is consumed in the casting)
Duration:  10 minutes
You counter an opponent's spell before it is even
cast, without knowing what spell you are
countering. When you cast this spell, the target
loses the ability to cast the highest level spell it
knows (or has prepared, if it prepares spells) for the
duration. If the creature knows (or has prepared)
multiple spells of that level, the DM randomly
determines one of those spells. Until the spell ends,
the target cannot cast that spell by any means.
In addition, if the target uses spell slots to cast
spells, it loses one spell slot instantly when you cast
this spell. The lost spell slot is of the highest level
for which the creature currently has slots. After this
spell ends, the spell slot is regained.
If the target has 9th-level spell slots, or the spell it
would lose the ability to cast is 9th-level, make an
ability check using your spellcasting ability. The DC
equals 10 + the spell’s level. On a success, this spell
works normally. On a failure, the target can make

Page 176
an Intelligence saving throw to negate the effects of
this spell entirely.
This spell has no effect on creatures that cannot
cast spells.
“Khelben Arunsun, the first Blackstaff of
Waterdeep, created many spells, yet only a handful
bear his name Now deceased, Khelben was one of the
most powerful wizards of Faerûn, or any other world
for that matter.
A shocking number of his plane’s powerful mages
perished in its past century of magical chaos, Khelben
among them. Given his power and influence, it is hard
for me to credit the small number of spell’s bearing his
name to humility.
“I note that neither Khelben’s close friend Elminster
nor the love of his life Laeral have commented on this
matter here. Nor did either leave a note on
Alamanther’s return,  a spell created by Alamanther
of Aglarond, who was once a consort of the Simbul,
the Witch-Queen of Aglarond, before being slain in
battle with the Red Wizards of Thay.
“As the Simbul was Laeral’s sister, and
Elminster’s lover, this is another situation where both
of my fellow commentators must have personal insights
that could be of great scholarly interest. I cannot
fathom the reason for their silence.”


Unknown Spell 553
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch Components:  V, S, M (a feather and a handful of
gem dust worth 50 gp, both of which are consumed
in the casting)
Duration:  Special (see below)
You imbue the touched object with the magic of a
silence spell, but that magic remains dorrmant until
you use a bonus action to touch the object and
speak a command word you designate. When you
do so, for 1 minute, no sound can be created within
or pass through a 20-foot-radius sphere centered on
the enchanted object.
As per the silence spell, any creature or object
entirely inside the sphere is immune to thunder
damage, and creatures are deafened while entirely
inside it. Casting a spell that includes a verbal
component is impossible within the sphere.
The duration of this spell is permanent until the
effect is activated. Once it is activated, the silence
effect lasts for a duration of 1 minute, and then the
spell ends. This spell ends early if you cast it again.


Unknown Spell 554
Casting Time:  1 reaction, that you take when you
reduce a creature to 0 hit points
Range: Self (30-foot cone)
Components:  V
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You issue a primal cry of victory that creates a 30-
foot cone infused with necromantic power
harvested from the death of your foe. The area
within the cone is difficult terrain for all crea-tures
besides you. Each creature in the cone when you
cast this spell must make a Constitution saving
throw. Undead, constructs, and creatures immune
to necrotic damage automatically succeed on this
saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 2d8
thunder damage, and is vulnerable to necrotic
damage for the spell’s duration. A hostile creature
that starts its turn within the spell’s area takes 1d10
necrotic damage.
A creature that failed its saving throw can make a
Constitution saving throw at the end of each of its
turns. On a success, it is no longer suffers the

Page 177
vulnerability to necrotic damage conferred by this
spell.
In addition, for the spell’s duration, the first time
you hit a creature in the spell’s area with a melee
attack on each of your turns, that attack deals an
extra 1d6 necrotic damage.
The sound of theinitial warcry you make when
you cast this spell can be heard up to 100 feet away.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 5th level or higher, the ne-crotic
damage increases by 1d10 for every two slot levels
above 4th.
“Though the killing ground  spell is
available to paladins, I am told most
eschew its use, except in the cause of a
truly righteous vengeance or reckoning.
Of course, paladins in the service of gods
of vengeance or death often consider
every battle they fight a righteous
reckoning…”


Unknown Spell 555
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self
Components:  V, S, M (a black onyx worth at least
50 gp that is carved to resemble the face of a
vampire)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You temporarily transform into the likeness of a
vampire. While transformed, you gain resistance to
necrotic damage, and to bludgeoning, piercing, and
slashing damage from nonmagical weapons. In
addition, you have the following abilities for the
spell’s duration:
 You can use your action to charm a target
within 30 feet that can see you. The target must
make a Wisdom saving throw or regard you as a
trusted friend and it won’t attack you. If the
target takes any damage, it can make another
saving throw to end the effect.  You gain a climbing speed equal to your walking
speed.
 If you have at least 1 hit point emaining, you can
regenerate 10 hit points at the start of each of
your turns unless you are in direct sunlight. This
effect doesn’t function if you took any radiant
damage since your last turn.
In addition, while under the effects of this spell,
you have hypersensitivity to sunlight, taking 20
radiant damage when you start your turn in direct
sunlight.
“This spell, aided by judicious use of
illusion magic, can convince your
enemies they face an actual vampire.
“They should not live long enough to
realize their mistake.”


Unknown Spell 556
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You pull your target close to you and make a simple
act of affection deadly. Make a melee spell attack. If
you hit your target takes 4d8 plus your spellcasting
ability modifier necrotic damage .. For the duration,
your target must make Constitution saving throw at
the start of their turn. If they fail they take 4d8
necrotic damage. If they succeed the spell ends.


Unknown Spell 557
Casting Time:  1 reaction, which you take when a
creature you can see within range is hit with a
melee attack
Range: 60 feet
Components:  V, M (a melee weapon)
Duration:  Instantaneous

Page 178
You call out a prayer for protective
intercession which teleports the creature
that made the triggering attack to an
unoccupied space within 5 feet of you.
The triggering attack hits you instead,
and you can then make one melee
weapon attack against the attacker.
If that attack hits, it deals an
extra 1d10 radiant damage.
At Higher Levels.  When you
cast this spell using a spell slot of
4th level or higher, the damage
increases by 1d10 for each slot
level above 3rd.


Unknown Spell 558
Casting Time:  1 bonus action
Range: 30 feet
Components:  V, M (a piece from a
chess set)
Duration:  Instantaneous
Time slows briefly for you or an ally, allowing a
quick burst of movement no one else can perceive.
Choose a creature within range of this spell. That
creature can use its reaction to teleport up to 30 feet
to an unoccupied space. When it arrives, choose a
creature within 5 feet of it, which must make a
Wisdom saving throw. On a failure, the teleported
target gains advantage on its next attack roll against
that creature before the end of its next turn.


Unknown Spell 559
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 90 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Instantaneous
Choose a person within range. That person may
make a Wisdom saving throw to resist the spell. If
they succeed, you learn nothing. If they fail, you
learn all of the local laws and customs that target
subscribes too. You have advantage on any Charisma check involving a member of that
community.


Unknown Spell 560
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Instantaneous
You can discern which direction is north if you are
at a location where north exists.


Unknown Spell 561
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 10 minutes
After socially interacting with a creature for at least
one minute, you can make a Wisdom (Intuition)
check with advantage against a DC of 10 + the
creature’s Charisma modifier + its proficiency bonus

Page 179
to determine its faction affiliation. For example, if
you were interacting with a Harper agent who is a
2nd level bard with a Charisma of 16, you could
make a Wisdom (Intuition) check with advantage
against a DC of 15 to determine that it is a Harper
agent.
The spell’s results are inconclusive if the creature
isn’t affiliated with a faction.


Unknown Spell 562
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V
Duration: Instantaneous
Your eyes flash green, turning golden as you survey
your opponents and perceive a shimmering green
aura over the most powerful foe. Choose any
number of creatures you can see within range. You
instantly know which creature has the highest
challenge rating. If multiple opponents are tied for
the highest challenge rating, you become aware that
all of them are equally as powerful. This spell does
not tell you the actual challenge rating of any
creature, just which of the creatures is most
powerful. The spell confers no other information.


Unknown Spell 563
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 50 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Instantaneous
Choose one creature that you can see within range.
It must make a Wisdom saving throw. If they fail,
you learn one of the following:
 One damage type the creature has resistance to
 One damage type the creature is vulnerable to
 One condition the creature is immune to


Unknown Spell 564
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components:  V
Duration:  Instantaneous
Choose a spellcaster within range. If the spellcaster
is a wizard, you learn their arcane tradition. If the
caster is a cleric, you learn their divine domain.


Unknown Spell 565
Casting Time:  1 action
Components:  V, S
Range: 60 feet
Duration:  Instantaneous
Your target must make a Wisdom saving throw. If
they fail, you learn any specific weaknesses the
creature has. For example, if you cast this on a
Vampire, you would learn that sunlight is deadly to
them. If the creature is vulnerable to a specific type
of damage that counts as a weakness for this spell.


Unknown Spell 566
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 hour
One arm transforms into a gnarled tree branch.
Your hand becomes a thick knotted fist, you cannot
hold anything in your hand, but it excels as a club.
The limb constantly twitches and can grow
suddenly to crush enemies. For the duration, you
can make a melee spell attack against any creature
within 15 feet. If you hit, the target takes 2d6 plus
your spellcasting ability modifier bludgeoning
damage. This is considered magic for the purposes
of overcoming damage reduction.

Page 180


Unknown Spell 567
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a metal-bladed weapon that
is consumed by the spell)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You create an invisible sword-shaped plane of force
that hovers within range. It lasts for the duration.
When the sword appears, you make a melee spell
attack against a target of your choice within 5 feet of
the sword. Because the sword is invisible, you have
advantage on all attack rolls with the sword against
creatures that can’t see invisible objects. On a hit,
the target takes 3d10 force damage.
Until the spell ends, you can use a bonus action
on each of your turns to move the sword up to 20
feet to a spot you can see and repeat this attack
against the same target or a different one.


Unknown Spell 568
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S, M (A prism worth at least 500
gp per Hit Die of the target)
Duration:  A year and one day
You magically inscribe a glowing symbol of Mystra,
goddess of magic, on a creature, cursing it with that
goddess's fury. The target must make a Wisdom
saving throw. Creatures that cast spells as a bard,
sorcerer, warlock, or wizard (including arcane
tricksters and eldritch knights) make this saving
throw at disadvantage. On a failure, until the spell
ends, the target has disadvantage on all Intelligence,
Wisdom, and Charisma checks, all spell attack rolls,
and all saving throws against spells. For the same
duration, all saving throws against spells cast by the
target are made at advantage, and the symbol you
inscribed on the target sheds dim light in a 5-foot
radius around it.
While a target is under the effects of this spell,
each time it casts a spell of 1st-level or higher, it must make a Constitution saving throw. On a
failure, it takes damage equal to twice the spell's
level. Whenever a creature with hair takes this
damage, streaks of silver appear in its hair. If this
damage reduces it to 0 hit points, the target's hair
becomes completely silver.
The inscribed symbol of Mystra appears drawn in
silver on each palm (or on the chest and forehead of
beings lacking palms).
This spell cannot be dispelled by any other spell
except for wish, but it can be countered by
counterspell . When this spell ends, all of its effects
end as well, except for any changes to the target's
hair, which remain permanently as if they were the
target's natural hair color.
“Our goddess Mystra inspired me to research
this spell, intended only for use against beings
who misuse arcane magic, which is granted by
Mystra via the Weave. The Lady of Mysteries
does not look kindly on mages who hurl deadly
magic at every spellcaster who insults them, nor
those who use the Art to deceive or exert baleful
influence over others.
“Mystra has been known to shorten the effects
on the truly repentant and the undeserving, if
they pray to her for forgiveness and obtain the
willing spiritual guidance of a cleric of Mystra.”


Unknown Spell 569
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You alter the structure of your hand so that it
becomes as hard and sharp as a blade. Until the
spell ends, your unarmed strikes inflict magical
slashing damage instead of bludgeoning damage,
and you make unarmed strikes with a magical +1
bonus to attack and damage rolls.
For the duration, once during each of your turns,

Page 181
you can make one unarmed strike as a bonus action.
At Higher Levels.  When you use a spell slot of
3rd, 4th, or 5th level to cast this spell, the magical
bonus increases to +2. When you use a spell slot of
6th or higher, the bonus is +3.


Unknown Spell 570
Casting Time: 1 reaction, which you take when any
creature within range casts a spell, begins its turn,
or ends its turn
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (a pinch of dust cast into the
air)
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
You create a number of false magical auras which
blink in and out of the perceptions of any creature
that can sense magic, moving from object to object
as they do so. Choose a point within range. Within a
30-foot radius sphere centered on that point, any
saving throw made against a divination spell is
made with disadvantage, and the true magical (or
nonmagical) natures creature or objects cannot be
detected. The detect magic and identify spells, and
other effects that detect or discern magical
properties, do not yield any useful information.
Spells and magical effects that detect creature types,
such as a paladin’s divine sense or the trigger of a
symbol spell, are also ineffective within the area.
Each creature or object in the area appears
magical one moment, or nonmagical the next, and
whenever a target does have a magical aura, it
appears to belong to a different school of magic
each time it is perceived. The changing magical
auras are only visible to those who can detect magic
or employ one of the other effects described above.


Unknown Spell 571
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 300 feet
Components:  V, S, M (A miniature platinum lance
engraved with arcane runes that costs 250 gp to
construct) Duration:  Instantaneous
You evoke a a shimmering, silver, lancelike column
of force in your free hand, then hurl it at an enemy.
Make a ranged spell attack against a target within
range. The target takes 3d10 force damage on a hit,
or half as much damage on a miss. Whether you hit
or miss, the target must make a Strength saving
throw. On a failure, the target falls prone.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 4th level or higher, the damage
increases by 1d10 for each slot level above 3rd.


Unknown Spell 572
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self
Components:  V, S, M (a handful of coins, incense,
and the caster’s holy symbol)
Duration:  Instantaneous
You focus on a location that you know about on the
same plane of existence, gaining insight into the
relative strength of creatures guarding the area and
the amount of treasure stored there. You do not
gain any knowledge regarding the numbers of
creatures or the exact amount of treasure. However,
you do gain a sense of the overall challenge and
reward levels based upon your party’s strength.
The Dungeon Master has free reign in
determining the results of this spell. For example,
the DM could state that the spellcaster has a feeling
that the dangers are more dangerous compared to
another location the characters had previously
explored, but the rewards are also better.


Unknown Spell 573
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self (60 foot line)
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Instantaneous
You raise your hand and emit a line of transparent
force 60 feet long and 5 feet wide. Each creature in
the line must make a Constitution saving throw. A

Page 182
creature takes 6d6 force damage on a failed save, or
half as much on a successful one. This spell inflicts
double damage against objects and structures.
At Higher Levels. You can cast this spell using a
spell slot of 4th level or higher, the damage
increases by 1d6 for each slot level above 3rd.


Unknown Spell 574
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self (10 foot radius)
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 10 minutes
You and any ally within range are drug into the
earth and deposited in a chamber just big enough to
hold all you. You and the allies you bring with you
can breathe and the ceiling of the chamber glows
softly. Divination spells of 3rd level or lower cannot
detect the chamber. Any divination spell cast from
inside the chamber automatically fails. When the
spell ends you return to the space you occupied
when you cast the spell.


Unknown Spell 575
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: Self
Components: V S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute)
You create a whip made of psychic energy, which
sparks pain but also fortifies will. It counts as a
simple melee weapon that you're proficient with,
and you can use your spellcasting ability instead of
Strength for the attack and damage rolls of melee
attacks using it. It deals 2d4 psychic damage, and
has the reach property.
Until the spell ends, in addition to using the whip
normally as a weapon, you can also use the whip on
a willing creature as a bonus action. When you do
so, the creature takes psychic damage equal to your
proficiency bonus plus your spellcasting ability
modifier, which cannot be reduced by any means.
However, the next time that creature rolls a saving throw before the end of its next turn, it makes the
saving throw with advantage.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a 2nd or 3rd level slot, the damage is 3d4. If the spell
slot is 4th or 5th level, it's 4d4. If you use a spell slot
of 6th level or higher, it's 5d4.


Unknown Spell 576
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self (60-foot cone)
Components:  V, S, M (a vial of dragon saliva)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You unleash a breath weapon like that of a dragon,
which then hangs in place and draws your enemies’
attention. You choose acid, cold, fire, lightning, or
poison for this spell, and force each creature in a
60-foot cone to make a Dexterity saving throw. A
creature takes 6d6 damage of the type you chose on
a failed save, or half as much damage on a
successful one.
The cone lingers until the spell ends, and its
area is lightly obscured. Any creature that enters the
spell’s area or starts its turn there must make a
Dexterity saving throw, taking 6d6 damage of the
type you chose on a failed save, or half as much
damage on a successful one.
A creature that fails its saving throw also feels
compelled to end the source of the breath weapon,
giving it disadvantage on attack rolls against
creatures other than you for the rest of that turn.


Unknown Spell 577
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: touch
Components:  V, S, M (a stoppered bottle)
Duration:  1 hour
You fill the bottle with water, and you enchant it to
become crystal clear. Anyone who drinks the water
during the duration is treated as if they were the
target of a lesser restoration. The side effect is what
gives the spell its name. Anyone that drinks the

Page 183
potion must make a Wisdom saving throw (DC 15)
or find everything hysterically funny. The character
becomes prone and incapacitated for one round,
laughing so loudly it is audible out to 50 feet.


Unknown Spell 578
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S (a piece of ammunition)
Duration: Instantaneous
You touch a piece of ammunition and instantly
make a weapon attack with it, just as if you were
attacking with a weapon that is normally used to
fire that type of ammunition. If multiple weapons
use that type of ammunition, you choose which of
those weapons this attack emulates. This attack is
made exactly as if you were using the weapon
emulated. The cantrip does not confer any other
benefits beyond those stated above (such as weapon
proficiency).
At Higher Levels.  This spell's damage increases
when you reach higher levels. At 5th level, if the
attack hits, it deals an extra 1d4 force damage to the
target. This extra damage increases to 2d4 at 11th
level and 3d4 at 17th level.


Unknown Spell 579
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 90 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a bottle carved of obsidian)
Duration:  Concentration, 1 minute
Choose a point you can see on the ground within
range. A fountain of liquid hot magma erupts in a
20-foot sphere centered on that point. For the
duration, the area of the spell (including all
portions of that area, above the ground or beneath
it) becomes difficult terrain, and the lava ignites
flammable objects in the area that aren't being worn
or carried.
A creature takes 3d6 bludgeoning damage and
3d6 fire damage when it enters the spell’s area for the first time on a turn or starts its turn there.
After the spell ends, the area of the spell remains
difficult terrain until it is cleared. Each 5-foot-
square portion of the area requires at least 1 minute
to clear by hand.
Firenewts or earth-based or fire-based elemental
creatures (such as gargoyles or salamanders) do not
take damage from this spell. Instead, such a
creature is healed, regaining hit points equal to half
the fire damage inflicted. Only firenewts or
creatures of the elemental type can benefit from
this effect.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 5th level or higher, the bludgeoning
damage and fire damage each increase by 1d6 for
each level above 4th.


Unknown Spell 580
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 90 Feet
Components:  V, S, M (any object made of glass)
Duration:  Instantaneous
You conjure handfuls of liquid-hot stone from the
elemental planes and hurl them at foes with
unerring accuracy. You create four lava missiles,
each of which hits a target of your choice that you
can see within range. Make a ranged spell attack. If
you hit a lava missile deals 1d6 fire damage and 1d6
bludgeoning damage to its target. The darts all
strike simultaneously, and you can direct them to
hit one creature or several. The darts can also target
objects that are not being worn or carried, and
ignites them if they are flammable.
If a lava missile strikes a firenewt  or an earth-
based or fire-based elemental creature (such as a
gargoyle  or salamander ), it does not inflict
damage on the creature. Instead, that creature is
healed, regaining 1d4 hit points for each lava missile
that hits. Only firenewts  or creatures of the
elemental type can benefit from this effect.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, the spell creates
one more dart for each slot level above 2nd.

Page 184


Unknown Spell 581
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 90 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a fist-sized lump of volcanic
rock.)
Duration:  Instantaneous
You conjure a wave of burning lava that rises up and
showers an area within range. The affected area is a
30-foot cone originating from a point you choose
within range. Each creature in that area must make
a Dexterity saving throw. On a failure, a creature
takes 3d6 bludgeoning damage and 3d6 fire
damage, and its speed is reduced by half until the
end of its next turn.
The area of the spell becomes difficult terrain,
and the lava ignites flammable objects in the area
that aren't being worn or carried. The difficult
terrain cannot be cleared for 1 minute, after which
the lava cools. Each 5-foot-square portion of the
area requires at least 1 minute to clear by hand.
Firenewts or earth-based or fire-based elemental
creatures (such as gargoyles or salamanders) do not
take damage from this spell. Instead, such a creature is healed, regaining hit points equal to half
the fire damage inflicted. Only firenewts or
creatures of the elemental type can benefit from
this effect.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 4th level or higher, the bludgeoning
damage and fire damage each increase by 1d6 for
each slot level above 3rd.


Unknown Spell 582
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 5 feet
Components: V, M (a weapon)
Duration: Instantaneous
As part of the action used to cast this spell, you
must make a melee attack with a weapon against a
creature within range, otherwise the spell fails. On a
hit, the target suffers the attack's normal effects,
and your enchanted strike shows an ally of your
choice within 5 feet of either you or the target how
to hit your foe where it hurts. That ally has
advantage on the next attack roll it makes against
the target before the start of your next turn. If that
attack hits, it inflicts an extra 1d6 radiant
damage and the
spell ends.
This spell's
damage increases
when you reach
higher levels. At
5th level, your
melee attack deals
an extra 1d6 radiant
damage to the
target, and the
extra radiant
damage from an
ally’s strike
increases to 2d6.
Both damage rolls
increase by 1d6 at
11th level and 17th
level.

Page 185


Unknown Spell 583
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S, M (a leaf)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
This spell turns one leaf into a dagger. The dagger
counts as a magic weapon for overcoming damage
resistance. Rangers and druids use this spell to
create silent, non-reflective weapons that look like
completely harmless leaves.


Unknown Spell 584
Casting Time:  1 minute
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S, M (a piece of iron pyrite)
Duration:  Instantaneous
This spell is cast on a device, such as a chest or door
lock. To a creature trained in thieves’ tools, the
object appears to be trapped with a complex
mechanism that would be difficult to disarm. The
main purpose of the spell is to deter would-be
thieves.
A creature trained in thieves’ tools and proficient
with the Investigation skill can spend an action to
make an Intelligence (Investigation) check with
disadvantage against your spellcasting DC. On a
successful check, the creature detects the ruse, and
can bypass the illusion to deal with the real device.
However, if the check is failed, all attempts to
disable the device fail, even though the “trap”
somehow doesn’t activate.


Unknown Spell 585
Casting Time:  1 minute
Range: Touch
Components:  S, M (acupuncturist’s needles)
Duration:  Instantaneous
Inserting needles into precise centers of ki in the
body, you energize a creature’s natural healing abilities. The creature may spend 1 Hit Die, and it it
can roll 1d4 and add the result to any Constitution
saving throws it makes before the end of its next
turn. Once a creature benefits from this cantrip, it
cannot benefit from it again until it finishes a short
or long rest.
As you gain levels, the number of Hit Dice the
affected creature can spend increases. When you
reach 5th level, the creature can spend up to 2 Hit
Dice, at 11th level it can spend up to 3, and at 17th
level it can spend up to 4. This spell has no effect on
undead or constructs .


Unknown Spell 586
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components:  S
Duration:  1 minute
A column of magical fire and light descends on your
enemy, then spreads out to not only burn other foes
physically, but burn away their ties to the ally you
targeted. Make a ranged spell attack against one
creature within range. On a hit, the target takes 3d8
radiant damage.
Whether the attack hits or misses, a column of
psychic fire consumes it and the creatures around it.
Each creature of your choice in a 10-foot-radius, 40-
foot-high cylinder centered on the target (including
the target) must make a Wisdom saving throw. A
creature takes 2d6 fire damage and 2d6 psychic
damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on
a successful one.
In addition, each creature besides the target who
fails the Wisdom saving throw becomes indifferent
towards the target and forgets the target ever
existed, as if its memories were altered by a modify
memory spell. This effect lasts for 1 minute. During
that time, the creatures take no action to cooperate
with the target and make no special effort to keep it
from harm. If it is in a position of authority, affected
creatures do not obey its orders. When the effect
ends, all affected creatures regain their normal
memories.

Page 186
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 6th level or higher, the psychic
damage increases by 1d6 for each slot level above
5th.
“There is said to exist a greater chainfire
spell, which can erase all memory of the
target from existence. If this spell did
once exist, it is now apparently
forgotten.”
“Heartened to see that my dear friend Elminster
chose not to make a joke here, instead letting the
irony speak for itself. Perhaps, after a thousand
years of life, even archmages such as ourselves
can still grow and mature. Perhaps…”
“Greater chainfire  is not entirely
forgotten…”


Unknown Spell 587
Casting Time:  10 minutes
Range: 120 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Instantaneous
You convert raw materials into products of the same
material. For example, you could fabricate an oar
from a wooden limb, or a shirt from a clump of
wool.
Choose raw materials that you can see within
range. You can fabricate a Medium or smaller object
(contained within a 5-foot cube, or eight connected
2.5 -foot cubes), given sufficient quantity of raw
material. If you are working with metal, stone or
another mineral substance, however, the fabricated
object can be no larger than Small (contained
within a single 2.5-foot cube). The quality of objects
created by this spell is commensurate with the
quality of the raw materials. Creatures or magic items can’t be created by this
spell. You also can’t use it to create items that
require a high degree of craftmanship, such as
jewelry, weapons, glass, or armor, unless you have
proficiency with the type of artisan’s tools used to
craft such objects.


Unknown Spell 588
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 50 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 hour
You target a closable object (a door, window, box
etc.) and name one creature type. Any creature of
that type cannot open that object. The creature also
cannot damage the object, nor attempt to pick or
break the lock. If another creature tries to break the
lock or damage the object, the object also becomes
resistant to all damage and the DC to break the
object increases by 10. Casting knock on the object
suppresses lesser guardian seal for 1 minute.


Unknown Spell 589
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S, M (a tiny shield of wood, glass,
or crystal)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
The person touched is immune to nonmagical metal
for the duration of the spell. Metal items pass
through you, and cause no harm. You can also walk
through metal barriers, such as gates or bars.
Magical metal objects affect you normally, as do
spells. Secondary effects delivered by metal items
affect you normally, such as a poisoned weapon
attack.
If the spell expires while metal is inside you, the
object is shunted out of your body or you are
pushed away from it to the nearest unoccupied
space; as a result, you and the object both take 1d6
bludgeoning damage.

Page 187
Since you pass through metal objects, your
unarmed attacks ignore metal armor while you are
under the effects of this spell. This does not change
the Armor Class of a creature wearing metal armor,
but it grants you advantage on unarmed attack rolls
against such creatures.


Unknown Spell 590
Casting Time:  1 reaction, which you take when a
creature within 30 feet drinks
Range: 30 feet
Components:  S, M (a vessel of water or a beverage
which is partially water, with which you make a
toasting gesture to the target as you both drink)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
Waiting for just the right moment, you transform
the water someone is drinking into deadly poison.
The quantity of water does not matter, just that the
target drinks more than a sip. It can also be a
beverage that is partially water (such as wine, beer,
or juice).
The creature who drinks makes a Constitution
saving throw. On a failure, the creature is poisoned
for the duration, and they take 4d8 poison damage.
If the creature fails the saving throw by 5 or more,
its Constitution score is reduced by 1d4. On a
success, the creature can choose to spit the water
out and take no damage, or continue to swallow it
and take half damage. If the creature failed its save,
at the start of each of the creature's turns before the
spell ends, it must succeed on a Constitution saving
throw or take 4d8 poison damage. On a successful
save, the spell ends.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 5th level or higher, you can affect one
additional creature who is drinking at the same
time, and the damage increases by 1d8 for each slot
level above 4th.


Unknown Spell 591
Casting Time: 1 reaction, which you take when you
would be afflicted with one of the conditions listed
in this spell description
Range: Self
Components: V
Duration: 1 round
You call to mind a long-forgotten memory that
helps you resist a condition that would dominate or
impede you. This memory may even come from
some kind of previous incarnation rather than your
current lifetime. You spend a Hit Die, but do not
regain any hit points. Instead, you prevent yourself
from suffering one of following conditions that
would otherwise afflict you: blinded, deafened,
paralyzed, poisoned, or restrained.
Once you cast this spell, until the end of your
next turn, your speed is halved and you cannot take
reactions. You must have at least one Hit Die when
you cast this spell, otherwise, the spell fails.
“The spell liberating memory  is highly useful, and
under the right circumstances it can be quite
enlightening as well. It was created by members of the
Transcendent Order, also called the Ciphers, a faction
native to the Outer Planar settlements,,particularly
Sigil. They teach that the path to enlightenment comes
from knowing your body and learning to listen to what
existence is telling you to do instead of what your mind
is saying.
“This emphasis on trusting instinct over intellect and
seeking all answers from within may work for some
spellcasters, but for wizards, relying on logic and
learning remains the most advisable strategy.”

Page 188


Unknown Spell 592
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 120 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Instantaneous
You concentrate energy into your palm and fire a
bolt of pure life force that sears the walking dead.
Choose one undead creature within range. You take
an amount of necrotic damage you choose, which
must be equal to or less than half your remaining
number of Hit Dice. This damage cannot be
reduced or avoided in any way. For every hit point
you sacrifice to power the spell in this way, the
undead target takes 2d6 radiant damage.


Unknown Spell 593
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You heal your wounds by draining vital energies
from a foe you touch. Make a melee spell attack
against a creature within your reach. On a hit, the
target takes 1d8 necrotic damage and it is paralyzed
until the end of your next turn, and you or an ally
within 5 feet regain hit points equal to half the
amount of necrotic damage dealt. Until the spell
ends, you can make the attack again on each of your
turns as an action, but only against the same target.


Unknown Spell 594
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Instantaneous
You pull pure life force out of your victim. The
target must immediately make a Wisdom saving
throw. On a failed save, the target takes 6d6
necrotic damage, or half as much on a success. Whether the target succeeds or fails its saving
throw, you are healed by the amount of damage
dealt. Alternatively, you can transfer these hit
points to an ally that you touch when you cast the
spell.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 6th level or higher, the necrotic
damage dealt increases by 1d6 for every slot level
above 5th.


Unknown Spell 595
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Instantaneous
You touch a target and drain their life to empower
your own. Make a melee spell attack against a
target, if you hit, you inflict 8d8 necrotic damage
and your target must make a Constitution saving
throw. If they fail they are knocked prone and
incapacitated until the end of your next turn. If the
caster of this spell is undead, they heal half the
damage they inflict. This spell has no effect on
constructs or undead.


Unknown Spell 596
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You touch a living creature and ward it against
death magic for a time. For the spell's duration, the
subject gains resistance to necrotic damage and
advantage on saving throws against effects that
would reduce its hit point maximum (such as the
bite of a vampire) or kill it instantaneously without
dealing damage (such as the wail of a banshee). In
addition, when the subject would fail a saving throw
an undead creature forces it to make, it can choose
to succeed instead, and the spell ends.

Page 189


Unknown Spell 597
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S, M (a rose thorn dipped in
blood)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You touch a willing creature and send their body
into overdrive. Their adrenaline spikes, and magic
enhances their muscles and nervous system. For the
duration of the spell the creature has advantage on
Strength saving throws, Dexterity saving throws,
gains 4d8 temporary hit points, and +3 melee to hit
and damage rolls.
Once the spell ends, the target gains 2 levels of
exhaustion, and takes necrotic damage equal to the
amount of temporary hit points they gained.


Unknown Spell 598
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: S, M (two identical needles)
Duration: Instantaneous
You launch magical darts at two creatures within
range, one an ally and one an adversary, with the
darts transferring life force from your foe to your
ally in a golden flash. Make a ranged spell attack
against a target within range. On a hit, the target
takes necrotic damage equal to 2d10 plus your
spellcasting ability modifier, and a conscious ally of
your choice within range gains temporary hit points
equal to the damage inflicted. If the attack misses, a
conscious ally of your choice within range gains
temporary hit points equal to your spellcasting
ability modifier.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, the necrotic
damage increases by 1d10 for each slot level above
2nd.


Unknown Spell 599
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: Self
Components: V
Duration: 1 round
Your movement doesn’t provoke opportunity
attacks until the start of your next turn.


Unknown Spell 600
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 120 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Instantaneous
You launch a missile made of electrical energy that
unerringly strikes a target that you can see within
range. The target takes 2d10 lightning damage. The
target can make a Constitution saving throw, taking
half the damage on a success.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the damage
increases by 1d10 for every slot level above 1st.


Unknown Spell 601
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 5 feet
Components:  V, M (a weapon)
Duration:  Instantaneous
Your attack leaves a glowing mote of arcane power
in your enemy’s wound. As part of the action used
to cast this spell, you must make a melee attack
with a weapon against one creature within the
spell's range, otherwise the spell fails. On a hit, the
target suffers the attack's normal effects and it takes
additional 2d6 thunder damage as electricity arcs
from the target to a different creature of your choice
that you can see within 5 feet of it. The second
creature takes lightning damage equal to 1d6 + your
spellcasting ability modifier.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using

Page 190
a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the lightning
damage increases by 1d6 for each slot level above
1st.


Unknown Spell 602
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S, M (a drop of quicksilver and a
shard of metal)
Duration:  10 minutes
The recipient is guarded against magic missiles and
lightning. Magic missiles and spell attacks that deal
lightning damage that target the recipient directly
are reflected at the original caster. The reflected
spells use the original caster’s attack bonus and
saving throw DC.


Unknown Spell 603
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S, M (a hair from a
lion’s mane)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1
minute
You touch a willing creature and
grant it immunity from being
frightened for the duration.


Unknown Spell 604
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self
Components:  V, S
Duration:
Concentration, up to
10 minutes
You grow a set of
vicious,
retractable
claws. They
do not hinder your manual dexterity, and can turn your hands
into deadly weapons in an instant. The claws inflict
1d6 slashing damage and have the light and finesse
properties. The hands are useful for climbing as
well, giving you advantage on Strength (Athletics)
checks to climb.


Unknown Spell 605
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (a hollowed ram’s horn)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
Until the spell ends, you gain advantage on Wisdom
(Perception) checks related to hearing, and gain
proficiency in the Perception skill. In addition,
being invisible doesn’t give a creature advantage on
attack rolls against you unless that creature is over
30 feet away.


Unknown Spell 606
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self (30-foot radius)
Components:  V, S, M (a small
drum)
Duration:  1 hour
For the duration, you and all
allies within 30 feet of you
when the spell is cast
gain a bonus of 10
feet to your
walking speed.
However, if a
creature
affected by this
spell takes any
other action
besides a move
action on its
turn, the spell
ends for that
creature.

Page 191


Unknown Spell 607
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 300 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You establish a link to one sense of a living creature
you can see within range. You can choose either
sight, hearing, or smell. You can perceive what the
target experiences through the chosen sense,
gaining any special senses the creature possesses.
However, your own sense of that type doesn’t
function while you are linked to the creature.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, you can choose
one additional sense and the range increases by 100
feet for every two slot levels above 1st.


Unknown Spell 608
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self
Components:  V, S, M (a bit of fur, a scale, a
feather, or another physical remnant from the type
of beast you seek)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 4 hours
You focus on a specific type of beast. If it is within
15 miles of you, you learn the direction and
distance, and if it is within 15 moving you know the
direction of its movement. This spell doesn’t locate
a beast if running water at least 10 feet wide blocks a
direct path between you and the beast.
The spell can locate a specific beast known to
you, or the nearest beast of the same kind (bear,
tiger, or wolf), so long as you have seen such a beast
up close—within 30 feet—at least once. If the beast
you described or named is in a different form, such
as being under the effects of a polymorph spell, this
spell doesn’t locate the beast.


Unknown Spell 609
Casting Time: 1 action  Range: 60 feet
Components: V, M (a ranged or thrown weapon)
Duration: 1 round
As part of the action used to cast this spell, you
must make a weapon attack with a ranged or
thrown weapon against one creature within the
spell's range, otherwise the spell fails. On a hit, the
target suffers the attack's normal effects, and a
shadowy duplicate of the weapon or projectile
appears, hanging in the air just short of where the
original struck. Choose one ally within 30 feet of the
target. The first time the target attacks the chosen
ally, forces the chosen ally to make a saving throw,
or includes that ally in a harmful area of effect
before the end of your next turn, the second
weapon or piece of ammunition automatically
strikes, inflicting 1d10 psychic damage.
This spell's damage increases when you reach
higher levels. At 5th level, the ranged attack deals
an extra 1d10 psychic damage to the target, and the
damage the target suffers for acting against the
chosen ally increases to 2d10. Both damage rolls
increase by 1d10 at 11th level and 17th level.


Unknown Spell 610
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: Self
Components: S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
You must not be wearing armor when you cast this
spell, otherwise the spell fails. You call forth
enchanted armor that protects you in a time of
need. This can be your choice of any kind of light
armor. If you are proficient with medium armor,
you can choose any kind of light or medium armor
with which you are proficienct. You instantly don
this armor as part of casting this spell. The armor is
magical, and in addition to the normal properties of
the type of armor you chose, it grants you a +1
magical bonus to Armor Class. Wielding a shield
does not interfere with this spell, but it ends if you
attempt to don other armor.
If you cast this spell using a spell slot of 3rd level

Page 192
or higher, the armor can be your choice of any kind
of heavy armor with which you are proficient, as
well as light or medium. When you cast this spell
using a spell slot of 5th level or higher, the armor
magical bonus increases to +2, and you can
concentrate on the spell for up to 8 hours.


Unknown Spell 611
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 10 minutes
You trap one creature or inanimate object you
touch between the plane you are on and the
Shadowfell. The target can make a Dexterity saving
throw to avoid the spell. If it fails, the creature
becomes insubstantial on both planes. It can see
into both planes, but can’t tell which plane any
particular item or person is on. Anyone on the plane
the creature was on originally or in the Shadowfell
can see the creature or object as a shadowy,
transparent version of itself. Any attack targeting
the creature or object fails, and any attack launched
by the creature fails.
The creature can cast spells normally if those
spells do not require an attack roll, and can target
creatures on either plane, but cannot target
creatures on both planes with the same effect. This
spell has no effect when cast in the Shadowfell.


Unknown Spell 612
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Instantaneous
You create a pair of spectral lips that fly toward an
ally and gift them with 2d4 temporary hit points.
At Higher Levels. You can cast this spell using a
3rd level or higher spell slot. You gift 2d4 temporary
hit points for each slot level above 2nd.


Unknown Spell 613
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self (60-foot cone)
Components:  V, M (a musical instrument)
Duration:  Instantaneous
The music created by this spell draws upon the
sadness, guilt, and despair of those around you.
Each creature in a 60-foot cone has disadvantage on
Wisdom (Perception) checks related to hearing
until the end of your next turn, and it must make an
Intelligence saving throw. A creature that fails the
saving throw takes 3d10 psychic damage and is
poisoned until the end of its next turn, as it calls to
mind memories of all its lost loves and
disappointments in life.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 4th level or higher, the damage
increases by 1d10 for each slot level above 3rd.


Unknown Spell 614
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 5 feet
Components:  V, S, M
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 hour
When you cast the spell, select up to six creatures
within 5 feet of you. You touch each of these
creatures as part of the action of casting this spell.
Until the spell ends, each chosen creature gains
advantage on Wisdom saving throws against
enchantment spells, effects that would cause them
to become charmed or frightened, and effects that
would force them to obey another creature’s
commands. If a subject of this spell is already under
the influence of such an effect, it can immediately
attempt another saving throw against that effect
when you cast this spell.


Unknown Spell 615
Casting Time:  1 action

Page 193
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You may only cast this on a weapon that deals
slashing or piercing damage. That weapon can warn
you a second before danger occurs. For the
duration, the weapon gains one charge, that can be
spent to allow you to reroll one saving throw. You
must accept the results of the second roll, even if it
worse.


Unknown Spell 616
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 120 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  1 round
Choose a 10-foot radius area within range. Living
creatures within the area hear an enchantingly
melodic lullaby and must make a Wisdom saving
throw. On a failed save, the creature becomes
drowsy and has disadvantage on Intelligence
(Investigation) and Wisdom (Perception) checks
until the end of its next turn. In addition, the
creature has vulnerability to sleep spells until the
end of its next turn; while vulnerable, the creature
only counts half of its current Hit Points to
determine whether it is affected by a sleep spell. On
a successful save, the creature is unaffected by this
spell.


Unknown Spell 617
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self (10-foot radius)
Components:  V, S, M (a firefly)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You summon a swarm of bright motes made of pure
force. They emit bright light out to 10 feet and dim
light for 10 feet beyond that. Anyone who attempts
to attack you in melee is swarmed by these moats.
The moats dig into your opponent’s eyes and
mouth, making breathing and vision nearly impossible. You may use your reaction to impose
disadvantage on a melee attack that targets you or
someone within 10 feet of you.


Unknown Spell 618
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 50 feet
Components:  V, S, M (the tongue of a drowned
person)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You point at a creature within range and make a
retching, gurgling sound, and it must make a
Constitution saving throw. On a failure, its lungs
start to fill with water, pouring out of the target’s
mouth and nose. The target starts choking and may
not take bonus actions or reactions while their
lungs are full of water. The target may repeat the
Constitution saving throw at the end of each of its
turn, ending the spell on a successful save. If the
target fails three saving throws, it drops to 0 hit
points.


Unknown Spell 619
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 5 feet
Components: V, M (a weapon)
Duration: 1 round
As part of the action used to cast this spell, you
must make a melee attack with a weapon against
one creature within the spell's range, otherwise, the
spell fails. On a hit, the target suffers the attack's
normal effects, and you instantly teleport 5 feet to
an unoccupied space you can see that is farther
away from the target than you are now. The spell
ends if no unoccupied space within 5 feet fulfills all
these requirements.
If you teleport successfully, you magically compel
the target to move closer to you, pulling it up to 5
feet in a straight line toward you. It takes 1d6
psychic damage if it ends this movement within 5
feet of you.

Page 194
This spell's damage increases when you reach
higher levels. At 5th level, the melee attack deals an
extra 1d6 force damage to the target, and the
psychic damage the target takes for moving
increases to 2d6. Both damage rolls increase by 1d6
at 11th level and 17th level.


Unknown Spell 620
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
A shimmering, translucent mace appears in your
hand. You can use it to smite your enemies or
intercept hostile magic. You can use the mace in
melee, on a successful attack the mace inflicts 3d8
plus your spellcasting ability modifier force damage.
If you targeted by, or included in the area of, an
enemy spell of third level or lower you can absorb
the spell with the mace. Doing so destroys the
mace. This cancels the spell’s effect on you, but not
on anyone else who is in the spell’s area of effect.
At Higher Levels. You can cast this spell using a
4th level or higher spell slot. You inflict plus 1d8
force damage for every spell level above 3rd.


Unknown Spell 621
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 300 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You create a 120-foot wide by 60-foot deep swirling
vortex that forms in a water source you can see
within range. If the water source isn’t at least the
size of the vortex, the spell fails. A creature in the
water that is caught within 60 feet of the vortex
must make a Dexterity saving throw. On a failed
save, the creature is sucked into the vortex’s
swirling waters.
A creature that starts its turn within the vortex’s
swirling waters must make a Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, the creature takes 2d6
bludgeoning damage, and it is sucked 10 feet closer
to the vortex’s center. On a successful save, the
creature doesn’t take damage, and isn’t sucked
closer to the vortex’s center. In addition, the
creature can use its action to make a Strength
(Athletics) check to swim away from the vortex’s
center. On a success, the creature can swim at half
its speed, unless it has a swimming speed, in which
case it can use this full movement. On a failed
check, the creature doesn’t make any progress.
A creature that starts its turn in the vortex’s
center, must make a Strength saving throw. On a
failed save, the creature takes 2d6 bludgeoning
damage and it is sucked 10 feet below the water’s
surface. A creature that reaches the vortex’s bottom,
60 feet below the surface, is ejected a further 20 feet
from below the vortex’s center.


Unknown Spell 622
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self
Components:  V S
Duration:  1 day
Choose one type of tool with which you are
proficient. Until the spell ends or the next time you
finish a short or long rest (whichever comes first),
whenever you make an ability check with the
chosen type of tool to craft or repair an item, you
have advantage on the roll. This spell ends early if
you roll initiative. Once you cast this spell, you gain
no benefit from subsequent castings until after the
next time you finish a long rest.
“This spell is common among artisans in the world of
Eberron, where production of low-powered magic items
is not only commonplace, but an important driver of the
leading nations’ economies.”

Page 195


Unknown Spell 623
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You touch a beast and imbue its natural attacks
with magical energy. For the duration, the
creature’s natural attacks are considered magical
and gain a +1 bonus to hit and damage.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, the bonus to hit
and damage increases by +1 for every two slot levels
above 1st.


Unknown Spell 624
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: 60 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration: 1 minute
You conjure a spectral fist that appears in an
unoccupied space you can see within range.
As part of the action used to cast the spell,
you can make a melee spell attack
with the fist against a creature or
object within 5 feet of it. On a
hit, the target takes 1d6 + your
spellcasting ability modifier
bludgeoning damage. On each
of your turns for the duration,
you can use a bonus action to
move the fist up to 20 feet to
an unoccupied space within
range and repeat the attack
against a creature or object
within 5 feet of the fist.
At Higher Levels. When
you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 3rd level or
higher, the damage
increases by 1d6 for every
two slot levels above 1st.


Unknown Spell 625
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S, M (a slashing weapon)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
A slashing weapon you hold is coated is glowing
magma. The weapon does an extra 2d8 fire damage.
Once per turn you can use a bonus action to spray a
target you have hit this turn with magma. Make a
ranged attack against a target within 15 feet. You do
not have disadvantage on this attack if there is an
enemy within 5 feet. If you hit you inflict 1d8 fire
damage.


Unknown Spell 626
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self (30 foot cone)
Components:  V, S, M (an obsidian chip)
Duration:  Instantaneous
You fire a cone of magma at
your enemies. Everyone
caught within the cone
must make a Dexterity
saving throw. They take
5d8 fire damage on a failed
saving throw and half as
much on a successful one.
In addition, anyone who
fails the saving throw takes
2d8 fire damage at the
beginning of your next turn.
The area covered by the
cone of magma counts as
difficult terrain for one
minute after the spell is cast.
At Higher Levels.  You
can cast this spell using a
spell slot of 4th level or
higher. The initial damage
increases by 1d8 for every
spell level above 3rd.

Page 196


Unknown Spell 627
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self
Components:  V, S, M (a shield)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You conjure magma and its swirls around your
shield. Any creature that attacks you in melee must
make a Dexterity saving throw versus your spell
save DC. Creatures that fail take 2d8 fire damage.
Creatures using a weapon with the reach ability
have advantage on this saving throw.


Unknown Spell 628
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 90 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a speck of glass or obsidian)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You cause a grasping, clawed arm of living molten
earth like that of a magmin to erupt from the
ground as grasp your enemy. Choose a Medium or
smaller creature within range. The target takes 2d6
fire damage, has its speed reduced by half until the
end of its next turn, and must make a Dexterity
saving throw. If it fails, it takes additional
bludgeoning damage equal to the fire damage and
becomes restrained. Creatures with resistance or
immunity to fire damage have advantage on the
saving throw.
While restrained by this spell, the target takes 1d6
fire damage at the start of each of its turns. A
creature restrained by the grasping claw or one that
can touch the creature can use its action to make a
Strength check against your spell save DC. On a
success, the target is freed.
When a target begins its turn restrained by this
spell, all flammable objects in its space that aren’t
being worn or carried are ignited.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, you can choose an
additional target for each slot level above 1st. “Having known the searing grasp of more than
one magmin in my early years, I can attest that
this spell is every bit as painful as the real thing.”


Unknown Spell 629
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: S, M (a lodestone)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
This spell allows you to draw iron or steel objects to
yourself by projecting a magnetic ray. Choose one
object within range that is nonmagical and made of
ferrous metal. This object must weigh less than 40
lbs. If the object isn’t being worn or carried, it
immediately flies into your space, where you can
either catch it with your hand (requiring no action)
or let it fall at your feet.
Using an action each round, you can target one
object you can see within range of the spell with
this effect.
If an object you target with this spell is being held
or carried by a creature, that creature must roll a
Strength saving throw. On a failure, the creature
drops the object, and it flies to your space, where
you either catch it with your hand or let it fall at
your feet. If the object is being worn by a creature
(like a helm or a chain shirt), the creature makes
the same Strength saving throw but has advantage
on the roll. On a failure, the creature is pulled up to
60 feet towards you if it is Medium-size or smaller.
If the item is secured in some way (such as being
chained to a wall or tied down with a rope), but not
being held or worn, you make an ability check to
break the restraint, as if you were making a Strength
check to break or burst whatever is securing it with
your own hands. Instead of making a Strength
check, you make a check with your spellcasting
ability score (adding your proficiency bonus). If the
check succeeds, you free the item and it flies to your
space as described above.
You can also attempt to move a metal creature

Page 197
that weighs less than your limit for this spell (such
as a Tiny construct). The creature makes a Strength
saving throw with advantage against this effect. If
the save fails, you can move the creature toward you
just as you would any other metal object.
Until this spell ends, your ability to carry, lift,
push, or drag any objects you have moved to your
space with this spell is calculated as if you had a
Strength score of 20 (giving you a carrying capacity
of 300 pounds and allowing you to push, lift, or drag
up to 600 pounds, if you are Small or Medium
sized), unless your Strength if higher.
If you move during the spell’s duration, you can
choose any object that you moved to your space
with this spell which you are not carrying, lifting,
pushing, dragging, or wearing to either move with
you as you go (levitating just above the level of your
feet) or remain in the square you moved it to.
Once you move an object to your space with this
spell, you have advantage on saving throws and
opposed rolls against dropping it, and creatures
seeking to move the item from your space have
disadvantage on rolls to do so. When the spell ends,
if you are holding, wearing, or carrying an object
that is too heavy for you, it falls softly to the
ground, landing harmlessly at your feet.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 4th level or higher, the weight limit of
objects you can move with this spell increases by 10
pounds for each slot level above 3rd. When you cast
this spell using a spell slot of 5th or 6th level, you
can choose up to two objects within range each
time you use your action for this spell, instead of
just one. If the spell slot is 7th level or higher, you
can choose up to three objects instead.


Unknown Spell 630
Casting Time:  1 bonus action
Range: Self
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute You summon a simple or martial weapon weighing
no more than 20 lbs that normally costs no more
than 75 gp. It appears in your free hand, ready to be
wielded, and lasts for the duration. It is a magical
weapon made of your psychic energies. If you let go
of the weapon, it disappears, but you can evoke the
weapon again as a bonus action.
You can use your spellcasting ability instead of
Strength or Dexterity for the attack rolls of melee
attacks using this weapon. On a hit, it deals force
damage equal to 2d6 + your spellcasting ability
modifier, instead of the normal damage for a
weapon of that type. If the weapon normally has the
ammunition property, this version does not have
that property, but you must go through the physical
motions of loading it normally as part of the spell
(thus, a weapon with the loading property retains
that property as a telekinetic weapon). Attacking
with a weapon that normally has the ammunition
property creates temporary magical ammunition
that you use normally as part of the attack, but that
ammunition ceases to exist after the attack hits or
misses and any damage is inflicted.
Though it is no more delicate than a common
version of that weapon, your telekinetic weapon
manifests as a semi-transparent solid the same color
as your eyes. This weapon has the simplest possible
geometric shape it can have while still functioning
as the chosen type of weapon. At the end of the
spell's duration, it dissipates harmlessly.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 4th level or higher, it gains a magical
+1 bonus to attack rolls, and inflicts an additional
1d6 force damage on a hit. When you use a spell slot
of 6th level or higher, the magical bonus to attack
and damage rolls increases to +2, and the additional
force damage increases to 2d6 (for a total of 4d6 +
your spellcasting ability modifier).


Unknown Spell 631
Casting Time:  1 reaction, which you take when you
are dealt damage
Range: Self

Page 198
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You are cloaked in an invisibility spell, while an
illusory double dies a horrible, overly dramatic
death. You can decide how your illusory double
dies, and they can make some grunts or wheezes to
try and sell the death, but cannot talk. The illusion
will fall to the ground, but cannot move more than
5 feet. The death takes one round, and anyone who
touches the corpse will realize it’s an illusion, but
the illusion will not fade away.
The illusion and the invisibility will last until the
end of the spell. The invisibility can be broken the
same way as the 2nd level spell of the same name.


Unknown Spell 632
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  v, S, M (a piece of brain)
Duration:  1 hour
You cover yourself or an ally in magic cloak that
provides clarity and protection. For the duration,
they target has advantage on all illusion and
enchantment spells and spell like abilities that
effect the mind. This spell is particularly hated by
mind flayers, which were Baravar’s hated enemies
and favorite prey. The warded creature is immune
to the mind flayer’s mind blast attack.


Unknown Spell 633
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self
Components:  V, S, M
Duration:  Concentration, up to 10 minutes
You surround yourself with a glossy nimbus of
energy that looks like a gelatinous layer of thick,
dirty water to observers, but does not hinder you in
the least. For the duration of the spell, you gain the
following benefits:  Oozes with an Intelligence of 3 or lower will not
attack you unless you attack them or force them
to make a saving throw.
 You are immune to poison damage.
 You are immune to the paralyed, poisoned,
restrained, and stunned conditions.
 You are immune to any spell or effect that
would alter your form.
 Magic can’t put you to sleep.
 When an attack that hits you is a critical hit or
sneak attack, you gain resistance to its damage
“This spell began as a special gift given by
Ghaunadaur, the god of oozes, slime, and abominations,
to his clerics. He is sometimes known as the Elder
Eye, though his relationship to the Elder Elemental
Eye is unclear. Originally a member of the drow
pantheon, the Elder Eye was touched by the Far
Realm and chose to leave the Inner Planes and strike
off on his own.
“Since that time, his only known allies have been two
beings now believed dead, the mold god Moander and
the archomental Bwimb, Baron of Ooze.
Ghaunadaur’s enemies, however, are many, including
all the gods of elves and all the other gods of the
Underdark.
“Some say that Lolth spurned Ghaunadaur's
romantic interests, driving him to fit of fury in which
he made his greatest worshipers mad or mindless. If
such an event did occur, it was fortuitous, since in
ancient times some slimes and oozes possessed great
intelligence. If this were still the case, today they
would pose a dire threat.”

Page 199


Unknown Spell 634
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self
Components:  V, S, M (a handful of thorns)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You sprout thousands of small thorns. The thorns
drain the blood and warmth from others, digging
into them after a few seconds of contact. A creature
that you grapple or is grappled by you takes 1d6
piercing damage at the start of your turn. On your
turn you may use an action to make a melee attack
against the creature. If you hit, you inflict 1d6 plus
your Strength modifier piercing damage.
At Higher Levels. You can cast this spell using a
spell slot of 3rd level or higher. If you use a 3rd level
slot the damage dice (both the beginning of turn
and the melee attack) become 2d6. If you use a 5th
level spell slot the damage dice becomes 4d6. If you
use a 7th level spell slot the damage dice becomes
8d6.


Unknown Spell 635
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Special
Components:  V, S, M (a book or scroll inscribed
with the target’s name and especially consecrated
for this purpose, detailing the crimes (real or
imagined) for which the subject is being
condemned)
Duration:  Instantaneous
You permanently place a mark upon a character or
creature that identifies it as an enemy of your faith.
The chosen creature suffers the following effects:
 Any member of your faith feels innately hostile
towards the chosen creature, giving it
disadvantage on Charisma (Deception,
Performance, or Persuasion) checks against
members of your faith. This hostility might not
induce the viewer to attack, but the creature will instinctively distrust or disbelieve anything
the marked one says.
 Members of your faith have advantage on
Wisdom checks against the chosen creature.
 The marked creature cannot benefit from any of
your faith’s services, such as spellcasting
provided by a temple of your faith, or naming,
marrying, or burial services.
You can place the mark of the unfaithful upon
any creature, even if it is on a different plane. You
cannot cast this spell on someone who is already
dead. Clerics, druids, paladins, and rangers of your
faith automatically detect this effect simply by
looking at the subject.
The effect is permanent until lifted, either by you
or another member of your faith of high enough
level to cast this spell. This spell is unaffected by
dispel magic or counterspell, though it can be
copied or undone using a wish.


Unknown Spell 636
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: Self
Components: V, M (a weapon)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
You adopt the persona of a vengeful agent of justice,
taking on a distinctive fighting style that promises
punishment to those who seek to harm your allies.
For the duration, when you hit a creature with a
weapon attack, you can mark the creature until the
end of your next turn. This effect ends early if
someone else marks the creature. While it is within
5 feet of you, a creature marked by you has
disadvantage on any attack roll that doesn't target
you and cannot make opportunity attacks against
you.
In addition, until the spell ends, you can use a
bonus action on each of your turns to force one
creature within 10 feet of you to roll a Wisdom
saving throw. It has advantage on the saving throw
if you do not currently have a creature marked, and
it automatically succeeds if it is a construct or

Page 200
undead. On a failure, a creature takes 1d6 psychic
damage and becomes frightened of you until the
end of your next turn.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 3rd or 4th level, you can concentrate
on the spell for up to 8 hours. With a slot that's 5th
level or higher, you can concentrate for up to 24
hours.


Unknown Spell 637
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S, M (a piece
of chalk)
Duration:  Instantaneous
You mask a stone door to
appear to be a seamless part of
a wall. If the wall is made of a
material that is not stone, then
the door appears to be made of
the same material. Any attempt to
discover the door is made with
disadvantage. Even detect magic
does not reveal the illusion.


Unknown Spell 638
Casting Time: 1
reaction, which you
take when you hit a
creature within
range with a weapon attack
roll
Range: 5 feet
Components: V, M (a weapon)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
Empowering your voice and weapon with
unwavering authority, you impose the full force of
your will on your foe. You mark the target of the
triggering attack until the end of your next turn.
This effect ends early if someone else marks the creature, or if you mark another creature. While it is
within 5 feet of you, a creature marked by you has
disadvantage on any attack roll that doesn't target
you, and your weapon attacks deal an extra 1d4
psychic damage to that creature on a hit.
For the spell's duration, whenever you hit a
creature with a weapon attack, you can mark that
creature until the end of your next turn.
Once before the spell ends, when you
mark a creature during your turn, you can
use a bonus action to cause the marked
creature to become restrained until the end
of your next turn.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast
this spell using a spell slot of 3rd or
4th level, you can concentrate on the
spell for up to 8 hours. With a slot
that's 5th level or higher, you can
concentrate for up to 24 hours


Unknown Spell 639
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V
Duration:
Concentration, up to 1
hour
You focus you mind and
body on the relentless
pursuit of your foe.
Choose a creature you
can see within range. Until this spell
ends, you gain the following benefits whenever you
can see the target:
 Your speed increases by 15 feet.
 Your movement does not provoke opportunity
attacks.
 When you hit a creature with an attack roll, you
deal an extra 1d6 psychic damage. This damage
is increased to 1d12 if the creature is the target of
this spell.

Page 201
 When you hit the target of this spell with a
weapon attack, you can mark that creature until
the end of your next turn. While it is within 5
feet of you, a creature marked by you has
disadvantage on any attack roll that doesn't
target you.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 5th or 6th level, you can concentrate
on the spell for up to 8 hours. With a slot that's 7th
level or higher, you can concentrate for up to 24
hours.


Unknown Spell 640
Casting Time: 1 reaction, which you take when you
hit a creature with a weapon attack
Range: Self
Components: V
Duration: 1 minute
While pressing your attack, you fortify yourself
against whatever your quarry throws at you. For the
duration, while a creature is marked by you (such as
with a spell like hunter's mark  or marshal's mark , or
with another marking effect like the Unwavering
Mark feature of the Knight martial archetype), you
have advantage on saving throws that creature
forces you to make. Whenever you hit a creature
marked by you with an attack, you gain temporary
hit points eqaul to 1d4 + your spellcasting ability
modifier.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a 5th-level or higher spell slot, that number of
temporary hit points you gain for hitting a creature
marked by you increases by 1d4 for each slot level
above 4th.


Unknown Spell 641
Casting Time: 1 reaction, which you take when you
reduce a creature to 0 hit points
Range: Self
Components: V
Duration: 1 minute You renew your fighting spirit when you bring
down a foe. You regain hit points equal to 4d10 +
your spellcasting ability modifier. If the creature
you reduced to 0 hit points to trigger this spell was
marked by you (such as with a spell like hunter's
mark or marshal's mark, or with another marking
effect like the Unwavering Mark feature of the
Knight martial archetype), you can also spend one
or two Hit Dice, as if you had just finished a long
rest.
The next time you make a saving throw during
the duration, you can roll a d12 and add the number
rolled to the saving throw, and then the spell ends.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 6th level or higher, the healing
increases by 1d10 for each slot level above 5th.


Unknown Spell 642
Casting Time:  1 reaction, which you take in
response to an attack made by a creature within
range that inflicts damage reducing you to half your
maximum hit points or fewer
Range: 30 feet
Components:  V
Duration:  1 minute
You cry out in pain at your wounds, and your
suffering weakens the enemy who inflicted it. The
creature who damaged you takes 2d12 thunder
damage and must succeed on a Charisma saving
throw or become poisoned and restrained for the
duration. At the end of each of its turns, the target
can make another Charisma saving throw. On a
success, the spell ends on the target. It also ends if
you regain hit points that bring your current total to
higher than half your maximum.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 7th level or higher, the range increases
by 30 feet for each slot level above 6th.


Unknown Spell 643
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch

Page 202
Components:  V, S, M (a drop of doppelganger
blood)
Duration:  12 hours
You change the features of any dead humanoid to
mimic someone else. You must either know the
person you are mimicking or have an accurate
picture or image of them. This spell can be cast on
an undead creature that has a tangible body and an
intact face (such as a zombie), but its statistics and
behavior do not change. A body that is the target of
this spell retains the facial features for the duration,
even if it is then animated as undead.


Unknown Spell 644
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You draw power from your pain. If you have taken
15 points or more hit point damage since your last
turn you gain advantage on melee attack rolls and
saving throws. This bonus lasts until the start of
your next turn. Although if you have taken 15 points
of damage since your last turn, you will get the
bonus again


Unknown Spell 645
Casting Time:  8 hours
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S, M (a canary diamond worth at
least 5,000 gp, which the spell consumes)
Duration:  Instantaneous
This spell works the same way as the awaken
spell, except that you may awaken a number of
targets equal to your spellcasting ability modifier.


Unknown Spell 646
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components:  V, S Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
This spell functions the same as curse of ill fortune ,
except that you may select any number of targets
within a 20-foot cube you choose within range.


Unknown Spell 647
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  8 hours
Choose up to six creatures within 30 feet of you. For
the spell’s duration, the next time a target would
drop to 0 hit points from taking damage, it drops to
1 hit point instead, and the spell ends for it.
If the spell is still in effect when a target is
subjected to an effect that would kill it
instantaneously without dealing damage, that effect
is instead negated for that target, and the spell ends
for it.


Unknown Spell 648
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a bit of phosphorous or a
firefly)
Duration:  10 minutes
This spell functions the same as fire shield , except
that you may target up to seven creatures within
range, one of which may be you.


Unknown Spell 649
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S, M (a pinch of dirt)
Duration:  1 hour
This spell functions the same as longstrider , except
that you can affect up to seven creatures.

Page 203


Unknown Spell 650
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
This spell functions like sanctuary , except that it
affects up to seven creatures within range (one of
whom may be you).


Unknown Spell 651
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a small piece of parchment
with some holy text written on it)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
This spell functions like shield of faith , except that it
affects you and up to six of your allies within range.


Unknown Spell 652
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 10 minutes
This spell functions like shield of warding , except
that it affects you and up to six of your allies within
range.


Unknown Spell 653
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Instantaneous
You travel instantaneously through the earth to any
destination you choose on the same world. If you do
not choose an exact location, the spell brings you to
a point near where you envision.


Unknown Spell 654
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: Self
Components:  V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You attune yourself to the rhythms of the planes,
acting in harmony with the multiverse and
perceiving the transitory nature of the time. Until
the spell ends, you have advantage on all saving
throws, and whenever you succeed on a saving
throw, you can choose to gain a number of
temporary hit points equal to your spellcasting
ability modifier.
In addition, for the duration, once during each of
your turns when you inflict damage on one or more
creatures, you can choose one target of that damage
and deal an extra 1d12 psychic damage to it.


Unknown Spell 655
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S, M (a handful of needles)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 hour
The next successful melee attack of the creature you
touch inflicts maximum damage. Treat this as if the
dice had rolled their maximum value. Once the
creature has made a successful melee attack, the
spell ends.


Unknown Spell 656
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S, M (a collar and leash)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 10 minutes
This spell can only be cast on a willing target. For
the duration, the caster and the target have a shared
pool of hit points. Any damage done to either
character is subtracted from this combined pool. A
spell that effects that damages both the target and

Page 204
the caster deals damage to the pool is treated as if
each character is using their own hit points. They
each make saving throws as normal and apply the
damage to the hit point pool as normal.
The caster may use their action to completely
control the target. The target may resist this part of
the spell with a successful Wisdom saving throw. If
they fail, you may use your action to take control of
the target like they were the target of a dominate
person. If the target wishes to end the spell for any
reason, it may make a Wisdom saving throw at the
end of their turn. The spell ends on a success.


Unknown Spell 657
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (an arrow)
Duration:  1 round
You enchant an arrow, and fire it at your target. If
you hit, your target takes damage as normal and
must make Wisdom saving throw. If they fail they
fall into a deep sleep for 10 minutes. If the
slumbering creature takes any damage they awaken
automatically. The creature may repeat the Wisdom
saving throw every minute. If they succeed they
awaken.


Unknown Spell 658
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self
Components: S
Duration: 1 hour
You spend a few moments looking around at your
surroundings while enhancing your senses to attain
absolute focus on every detail. Until the spell ends,
whenever you make an Intelligence or Wisdom
check that includes your proficiency bonus, you can
roll a d4 and add the number rolled to your result.
In addition, until the spell ends, you have perfect
recall of everything you could see, hear, smell, taste,
and touch at the moment you cast it. This includes everything that your senses could perceive in every
direction, as well as every word you had heard
spoken for 1 minute prior to the casting.
You have it all perfectly memorized, allowing you
to make Intelligence and Wisdom checks to discern
information about the area as if you were there until
the spell ends, even if you are far away. Words on
the open page of a book, creatures that flew by
quickly, and even unfolding magical effects can all
be examined in memory as if they were in front of
you and holding still. When you examine the area in
this way, you can only perceive the area as it was
when you cast this spell, and this spell grants no
awareness of any ways in which the area might have
changed since then.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 4th or 5th level, you can concentrate
on the spell for up to 8 hours. With a slot that's 6th
level or higher, you can concentrate for up to 24
hours.


Unknown Spell 659
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You create a cloud of spores that infect the brain
of a creature you can see within range. The target
must make a Constitution saving throw. On a failed
save, the creature takes 4d6 psychic damage, and it
has disadvantage on Intelligence ability checks and
saving throws until the end of its next turn. On a
successful save, the target doesn’t take damage or
have disadvantage on Intelligence ability checks
and saving throws.
You can use an action on each of your turns for
the duration to force the target to make another
Constitution saving throw or suffer the spell’s
damage and effects.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 6th level or higher, the psychic
damage increases by 1d6 for each slot level above
5th.

Page 205


Unknown Spell 660
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 90 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 hour
Choose a number of items within range equal to
your spellcasting ability modifier. Those items
appear to be of the highest quality. If you
attempt to sell those items, the person you
are attempting to sell those items to may
make an Intelligence saving throw. If they
fail, you make all Charisma (Persuasion)
checks with advantage.


Unknown Spell 661
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a rust monster’s eye)
Duration:  Instantaneous
You reduce one metal object to a pile of rust.
Choose one metal object within range that is Large
or smaller. Make a ranged spell attack against the
higher of either the AC of the item (19 for most
metals, 21 for mithral, 23 for adamantine), or the AC
of the one holding or carrying it (if it is being held
or carried). If the object is not magical, you have
advantage on the attack roll and score a critical hit
on a roll of 18, 19, or 20. On a hit, the item takes
necrotic damage equal to 6d12 plus your
spellcasting ability modifier.
If the chosen object is a magic item, the necrotic
damage is determined by the item's rarity, as
follows: Artifacts
take no
damage from this
spell. Most magic items have
resistance to all damage, and will therefore take half
the indicated damage. If a magic item you target
with this spell is sentient, you have disadvantage on
your ranged spell attack against it.


Unknown Spell 662
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 120 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a handful of stones)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
A number of meteors equal to your spellcasting
ability modifier appear and orbit around you. You
may use a bonus action on each of your turns to
launch one of the meteors at an enemy within
range. Make a ranged spell attack. If you hit, you
inflict 2d6 fire damage and 2d6 bludgeoning

Page 206
damage. Once all of the meteors have been
launched or the duration expires, the spell ends.
At Higher Levels. You can cast this spell using a
spell slot of 6th level or higher. You create one more
meteor for every two spell slot levels above 4th.


Unknown Spell 663
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self
Components:  V, S, M (a melee weapon)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You can only cast this spell on a melee weapon. The
damage dice of that weapon increases to the next
larger dice. For example, a weapon that inflict 1d8
damage would inflict 1d10 damage while under the
effect of this spell. A weapon that inflicts 1d12 or 2d6
damage inflicts 2d8 damage under the effects of this
spell.


Unknown Spell 664
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 120 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  1 round
You send a telepathic message to one creature
within range. The target (and only the target)
receives the message as your voice whispering in
their mind. They can send a telepathic message
back in reply. This ability to communicate lasts
until the start of your next turn. You can’t
communicate with an unwilling creature.
Creatures with Intelligence scores of 2 or less
aren’t affected by this spell. You don’t need to share
a language with a creature for it to understand your
telepathic utterances, but the creature must
understand at least one language in order to
communicate this way. If you cannot see or hear the
target, you must be familiar with the target and
know its approximate location with range. If the
creature is not within range, the spell fails.


Unknown Spell 665
Casting Time:  1 minute
Range: 30 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a tiny piece of matter of the
same type of the item you plan to create)
Duration:  Special
You pull wisps of shadow material from the
Shadowfell to create a nonliving object of vegetable
matter within range. This can be soft goods, rope,
wood, or something similar. You can also use this
spell to create mineral objects such as stone, crystal,
or metal. The object created must be no larger than
a 2.5-foot cube, and the object must be of a form
that you have seen before.
The duration depends on the object’s material. If
the object is composed of multiple materials, use
the shortest duration.
Using the material created by this spell as another
spell’s material component causes that spell to fail .


Unknown Spell 666
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self
Components:  V, S
Duration:  1 hour
You can alter minor features of your appearance.
The spell can’t make major changes to your
appearance, such as altering your height or weight.
However, you could make a scar or wrinkles appear
on your face, or you could change the color or
length of your hair. For the duration, you may add
+2 to any ability checks you make to create a visual
disguise for yourself.

Page 207


Unknown Spell 667
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self
Components:  V, S
Duration:  1 round
You manifest a simple melee weapon or a short
sword, made of pure psionic energy. It appears in
your free hand, ready to be wielded, and lasts for
the duration. If you let go of the weapon, if you
dismiss it (no action required), or if you are
incapacitated, your telekinetic weapon disappears
and this spell ends. Otherwise, it lasts until the end
of your next turn.
You can use your spellcasting ability instead of
Strength or Dexterity for the attack and damage
rolls of melee attacks using this weapon, and it
inflicts force damage instead of the normal damage
for a weapon of that type.
As part of the action of casting this spell, you can
make one melee attack with the weapon against a
creature within 5 feet of you. If you do so, for that
first attack only, the weapon inflicts an extra 1d4
force damage. After that, you attack with the
weapon normally.
Though it is no more delicate than a common
version of the weapon you have created, your minor
telekinetic weapon manifests as a semi-transparent
solid the same color as your eyes. This weapon has
the simplest possible geometric shape it can have
while still functioning as the chosen type of
weapon, and creatures who see it know it is a
magical effect you have created. At the end of the
spell's duration, the weapon dissipates harmlessly.
This spell's damage increases when you reach
higher levels. At 5th level, the extra force damage
you inflict when you make an attack with the
weapon as part of the action of casting this spell
increases by 1d4. This damage roll increases by an
additional 1d4 at 11th level and 17th level.


Unknown Spell 668
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 90 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a handful of dice)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
Choose one creature within range, which must
make a Wisdom saving throw. If the creature
succeeds, the spell fails. On a failure, any time the
creature attempts to cast a spell for the duration, it
instead casts a randomly determined spell of the
same level. The arcane spellcaster can repeat the
Wisdom saving throw at the end of their turn to
end the spell.


Unknown Spell 669
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: S
Duration: 1 round
You conceal your arcane attack, mentally
influencing your foe into both believing the attack
came from one of your allies and focusing on that
ally obsessively. Make a ranged spell attack against
a target within range. On a hit, the target takes 4d6
psychic damage, and you choose one creature
friendly to you who is within 30 feet of both you and
the target. That friendly creature marks the target
until the end of your next turn.
While a creature marked with this spell is within
5 feet of you of the friendly creature that marked it,
it has disadvantage on any attack roll that doesn't
target that friendly creature. This spell ends early if
the friendly creature dies or is incapacitated, or if
the target marked with this spell is marked by a
creature besides the friendly creature.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the damage
increases by 1d6 for each slot level above 1st.

Page 208


Unknown Spell 670
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 120 feet
Components:  S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You gesture toward a creature wishing it ill luck.
The target must make a Wisdom saving throw. On a
failed save, the creature has disadvantage on ranged
attacks of any kind for the duration. If the creature
attempts to make a ranged attack while under this
spell’s effect and misses, it must make a second
ranged attack roll against itself. On a hit, the
creature takes the attack’s damage. The creature
can attempt a new saving throw at the end of each
of its turns, and on a success, the spell ends for that
creature.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 5th level or higher, you can affect one
additional creature for each slot level above 4th.


Unknown Spell 671
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
Make a melee spell attack against a creature within
reach. On a hit, you can curse one of the target’s
ability scores of your choice. The creature has
disadvantage on ability checks, attack rolls, and
saving throws with the chosen ability for the spell’s
duration. The creature can attempt a Wisdom
saving throw at the end of each of its turns; on a
successful save, the creature can end one of the
disadvantages affecting it (either ability checks,
attack rolls, or saving throws). Once a creature
makes three saving throws, the spell ends for that
creature.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 6th level or higher, you can affect one
additional creature for each slot level above 5th.


Unknown Spell 672
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self
Components:  V, S, M (a set of bone dice marked
with runes)
Duration:  Instantaneous
You roll a set of bone dice marked with runes. You
can read the circumstances of the moment through
your interpretation of the dice roll. The Dungeon
Master will tell you in no more than two words the
situation’s current conditions. Some examples of
replies could be “pit trap,” “impending danger,” or


Unknown Spell 673
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 120 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 hour
Select a non-humanoid target that you can see
within range. The target must make a Wisdom
saving throw. If it fails the save, the target is
charmed and under your mental control (as if under
the effects of the dominate monster  spell).
Unlike the dominate monster  spell, this effect
doesn’t grant the monster a saving throw whenever
it takes damage. However, if you give the creature
an order that is suicidal, self-destructive, or against
its very nature (such as ordering a celestial to
murder innocents), it can make another saving
throw with disadvantage to resist the order. If the
creature makes its saving throw, though it doesn’t
obey that particular order, it is still your thrall.
However, all future saving throws made to resist
that order are made with advantage.
If you maintain your concentration for the full
duration, the effect is permanent.

Page 209


Unknown Spell 674
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S, M (a small candy made with
wintergreen oil)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You cause a glowing white blade of force to spring
from your hand. The blade can take the form of any
bladed weapon you are proficient with. You can
attack with the blade using your spellcasting ability
modifier instead of the normal ability modifier used
for the attack. If you score a hit with the blade
against a living creature, it takes 2d8 radiant
damage. If you hit an undead with the blade, it
takes 3d8 radiant damage.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 5th level or higher, the radiant
damage increases by 1d8 for every two slot levels
above 3rd.


Unknown Spell 675
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 150 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Instantaneous
You create a bolt of energy made of
moonlight that streaks from your hand
unerringly towards one target within range.
A living creature struck by a moon bolt
takes radiant damage equal to 4d4 + your
spellcasting ability modifier. In addition, the
target must make a Constitution saving throw,
or it has disadvantage on Strength ability
checks and saving throws for 1 minute. The
target can repeat the saving throw at the end
of each of its turns, ending the Strength
sapping effect on a success.
An undead creature struck by the moon bolt
takes radiant damage equal to 8d4 + your
spellcasting ability modifier. In addition, the
creature must make a Wisdom saving throw, or it is knocked prone and incapacitated for 1
minute. The target can repeat the saving throw at
the end of each of its turns, ending the
incapacitated condition on a success. Afterwards, it
can stand but has disadvantage on attack rolls and
Wisdom saving throws for the spell’s duration.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 5th level or higher, the amount of
radiant damage increases by 1d4 for each slot level
above 4th.


Unknown Spell 676
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S, M (100 gp worth of rare inks
that are consumed by the spell)
Duration:  Instantaneous
You inscribe up to seven marks on any surface,
which can be
any

Page 210
nonmagical glyphs or symbols. When the spell is
finished, each mark becomes invisible. You specify
the conditions that make the runes visible. The
runes only become visible to those who match the
conditions you described, or by anyone using true
seeing. The runes last until the object they are
placed upon is destroyed.


Unknown Spell 677
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 150 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a small piece of moonstone)
Duration:  Instantaneous, or up to 3 rounds
When you cast this spell, three motes of lightning
appear next to you, and you can direct each mote to
strike a target within the spell’s range. You can
direct the motes to strike a single target or separate
targets. Make a separate ranged spell attack for each
mote. On a hit, the mote deals 4d6 lightning
damage, and then fades away.
You do not have to fire all the motes on the round
you cast the spell. On each successive turn, you can
use an action to fire any remaining motes. If a turn
passes without firing any motes, the spell ends, and
all remaining motes vanish.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 6th level or higher, the amount of
lightning damage increases by 1d6 for each slot level
above 5th.


Unknown Spell 678
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Instantaneous, and 1 minute
A 60-foot cone of moonfire emanates from your
outstretched hand. A creature caught in the cone
must make a Constitution saving throw or take 10d8
radiant damage and it is blinded until the start of
your next turn. On a successful save, a creature
takes half the damage and isn’t blinded. A shapechanger or an undead caught in the cone has
disadvantage on the saving throw.
In addition, all creatures and objects caught in
the cone that are either affected by spells or imbued
with magic glow with a faint blue light for 1 minute.
A shape-changed or polymorphed creature that
misses its saving throw returns to its original form.


Unknown Spell 679
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a bit of fur and a glass rod)
Duration: Instantaneous
You point your finger at a creature you can see
within range and an arc of blue lightning jumps out
toward it. The creature must make a Dexterity
saving throw. The target takes 6d10 lightning
damage on a failed save or half as much on a
success. The creature has disadvantage on the
saving throw if it is wearing metal armor.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 5th level or higher, the damage
increases by 1d10 for every slot level above 4th.


Unknown Spell 680
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 1 mile
Components:  V, S, M (the eyes of a lich, which the
spell consumes)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You can change one 6th level or lower memorized
spell for any spell of the same level or lower from
your spellbook. Your spellbook must be within a
mile of you. You forget your memorized spell, and
treat the spell from your spellbook as if you had
memorized it. When the spell ends, you forget both
spells. Only one spell can be called for each casting
of Mordenkainen’s penultimate cogitation.

Page 211
“Not only do the vast majority of mages lack the level
of mastery required to cast my spells effectively, but I
am told that quite a few sorcerers and warlocks
struggle to even pronounce their names.”
“Of all the multiverse’s practitioners of the Art,
even among the ranks of the archmages, few can
match Mordenkainen in his meticulous
creativity when researching spells, his breadth
and precision in planar knowledge, or his sheer
snobbery.”
“I have considered Mordenkainen a friend
for centuries. For a time, we enjoyed
regular meetings, joined by a third wizard
from a distant plane (a black-robed elf
whose mentored by the most terrifyingly
ambitious archmage even I ever heard of),
and I eagerly looked forward to our
exchanges of arcane lore. Though we no
longer meet in this way (and our elven
friend seems to have disappeared),
Mordenkainen remains a steadfast ally in
many worthy causes.”
“Yet it must be said: the man has
changed.”


Unknown Spell 681
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self (30-foot radius)
Components:  V
Duration:  Instantaneous
You speak an ancient cipher that disrupts all magic
within 30 feet of you. Any spells within range other than those cast upon yourself are instantly ended as
if by a dispel magic  spell and all unattended magic
items are destroyed, as the magic that holds them
together is unraveled.
In addition, any creature other than you within
range that carries any magic items must make a
Wisdom saving throw for each item carried; a
creature can use its own Wisdom saving throw for
each item, with a bonus equal to 1 plus the item’s
maximum bonus, as listed in the Magic Item Power
by Rarity table in chapter 9 of the Dungeon Master’s
Guide. On a failed save, the item is destroyed.
Artifacts and sentient magic items are unaffected
by this spell.


Unknown Spell 682
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 120 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Instantaneous
You create a globe of force that streaks unerringly
toward a target you can see within range. The target
takes 2d6 force damage, and the globe explodes in a
concussive blast. The target and each creature
within 5 feet of it must make a Dexterity saving
throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 4d6 force
damage, or half as much on a successful save.
Objects within range automatically miss the saving
throw.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 5th level or higher, the damage from
the blast increases by 1d6 for each slot level above
4th.


Unknown Spell 683
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute

Page 212
For the duration of the spell, the creature touched
has advantage on saving throws against any spell
that would move it against its will. In addition, the
subject has advantage on ability checks to resist
being grappled, shoved, or moved against its will.
If an effect successfully moves the target, the spell
ends.


Unknown Spell 684
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 90 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Instantaneous
All windows, doors, or other forms of egress in a 40-
foot cube instantly slam shut and are secured with
an arcane lock. Each opening is secured with its
own arcane lock, which must be dispelled
separately.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 7th level or higher, the size of the
cube increases by 10 feet for each slot level above
6th.


Unknown Spell 685
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, and up to 1 minute
You create a 30-foot radius by 20-foot high cloud of
scalding hot steam within range that moves away
from you in a straight line at a speed of 10 feet per
round.
A creature that starts its turn in the cloud takes
2d6 fire damage, and suffers from the blinded
condition for the duration of the spell. A successful
Dexterity saving throw halves the damage and
negates the blinded condition. A blinded creature
can attempt a Constitution saving throw at the end
of each of its turns, and on a success, the blinded
condition ends.
In addition, the area within the mists is heavily obscured. Wind does not affect the cloud’s direction
or speed. However, a moderate wind disperses the
cloud in 4 rounds.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 5th level or higher, the amount of fire
damage increases by 1d6 for each slot level above
4th.


Unknown Spell 686
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You conjure a shadowy duplicate of a foe that
assaults and harries the original. Choose a Medium-
size or smaller creature within range, then choose
an unoccupied space within 5 feet of that creature.
A murderous twin of the target appears in the
chosen space, and makes a melee spell attack
against the target, using your spell attack modifier.
On a hit, the target takes 2d6 psychic damage and
has disadvantage on the next attack roll it makes
before the end of its next turn.
The murderous twin lasts for the duration. While
it is within 5 feet of the target, the target has
disadvantage on all attack rolls for opportunity
attacks.
Until the spell ends, whenever the target makes
an attack roll, forces another creature to make a
saving throw, or ends its turn more than 5 feet away
from the murderous twin, you can use your reaction
you can cause the murderous twin to vanish. The
murderous twin then reappears in an unoccuped
space within 5 feet of the target, then repeats the
melee spell attack.


Unknown Spell 687
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self (30-foot radius sphere)

Page 213
Components:  V, S, M (a staff of wood capped with
the fingerbone of an archmagi, which has been
packed in diamond dust worth 5,000 gp for 1 week,
which you break over your knee or another object)
Duration:  Instantaneous
You unleash deadly explosive power, like the effects
of the retributive strike created by breaking a staff
of power or staff of the magi . The spell converts any
unexpended spell slots you have into a blast of
magical energy, releasing your arcane power in an
explosion that expands to fill a sphere with a 30-foot
radius centered on you.
When the staff explodes, you have a 50% chance
to avoid the explosion by instantly transporting to a
random plane of existence. However, if you are not
transported, then you take force damage equal to 16
× the number of unexpended spell slots you had
when you cast the spell.
In addition, each creature in the sphere’s radius
when the blast occurs must make a Dexterity saving
throw. On a failed save, a creature takes an amount
of damage based on how far it is from the blast’s
point of origin, as described below. On a successful
saving throw, a creature takes half damage.
All creatures within 10 feet of you when the blast
occurs take force damage equal to 8 × the number
of unexpended spell slots you had when you cast
this spell. Likewise, creatures between 11 and 20 feet
away from you take force damage equal to 6 × the
number of unexpended spell slots you had when
you cast this spell. Finally, creatures between 21 and
30 feet away from you take force damage equal to 4
× the number of unexpended spell slots you had
when you cast this spell.
“This spell was created in the nation of
Halruaa. It is widely thought that
Mycontil cast this spell to defeat the
barbarian chieftain Reinhar I, during
Dambrath’s invasion of Halruaa. Mycontil
and his assistants vanished after the blast
and were presumed destroyed. As of this
writing, there has been no other
recorded use of the spell.”


Unknown Spell 688
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
You touch a willing beast and transform it into an
exemplary member of its kind. For the duration, the
beast gains the following benefits:
 It has maximum hit points.
 It gains one size category.
 It has advantage on Strength and Constitution
ability checks and saving throws.
 Its natural attacks deal an extra 1d4 damage.
 It gains 20 temporary hit points.


Unknown Spell 689
Casting Time:  1 bonus action
Range: 5 feet
Components:  V
Duration:  1 minute
Until the spell ends, you gain +5 bonus to your
passive Wisdom (Perception) score and a +2 bonus
to AC. For the duration, when a creature would
make an attack roll against you, that attack cannnot
benefit from advantage.


Unknown Spell 690
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 30-foot cone
Components:  V, S, M (a piece of rotting fish)
Duration:  Instantaneous
You breathe out a cloud of sickly green gas. Anyone
caught in the cloud must make a successful
Constitution saving throw or be stunned for 2d6
rounds.
The affected target must make a Constitution
saving throw at the end of each of its turns. On a
successful save, the stunned effect ends.

Page 214


Unknown Spell 691
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: 1 round
You briefly compel a wounded undead or other
creature infused with necrotic energies to aid in
your defense. Choose one creature you can see
within range that is below its hit point maximum.
If the target is not undead, it must have taken
necrotic damage since the start of your last turn.
The target must roll a Wisdom saving throw.
On a success, the target suffers disadvantage
on its next attack roll before the end of your
next turn. On a failure, you can pull the target
up to 30 feet closer to you and it is both
restrained and charmed by you until the end
of your next turn. Until then, any creature that
ends its turn within 5 feet of the target takes 4d6
necrotic damage.
While it is charmed by you, the creature will not
attack you or seek to harm you, but otherwise it is
not forced to obey your commands.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 5th level or higher, the necrotic
damage inflicted increases by 1d6 for each slot level
above 4th.


Unknown Spell 692
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 90 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a vial of phase spider
venom)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You create a 30-foot cube filled with shadowy, life-
draining webs for the duration. The area is difficult
terrain and heavily obscured. If the webs are not
anchored to a solid object or layered across a floor,
wall, or ceiling, the web collapses on itself and fades
away, ending the spell.
A creature that starts its turn in, or moves into the web during its
turn must make Dexterity
saving throw. If it fails it is restrained.
A restrained creature can sue its action to make
Strength check against your spell save DC. If they
succeed they are no longer restrained.
A creature that ends its turn restrained by the
webs, must make a Constitution saving throw. They
take 6d8 necrotic damage on a failed save and half
as much on a successful one.


Unknown Spell 693
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self (10-foot radius)
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You radiate life-stealing negative energy in a 10-foot
radius. Each living creature that starts its turn
within 10 feet of you must make a Constitution
saving throw. On a failed save, the creature takes

Page 215
1d10 necrotic damage. On a successful save, the
creature takes half the damage.
An undead creature that starts its turn within 10
feet of you gains 1d10 hit points.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 6th level or higher, the necrotic
damage dealt to living creatures or the amount of
hit points healed for undead creatures increases by
1d10 for every two slot levels above 4th.


Unknown Spell 694
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self (30-foot cone)
Components:  V, S, M (a pine cone)
Duration:  Instantaneous
You sprout needles from your hand and spray them
at your enemies. Every creature in a 30-foot cone
must make a Dexterity saving throw. They take 2d6
piercing damage on a failed save and half as much
on a successful one. This damage counts as magical
for the purposes of overcoming damage resistance.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, the damage
increases by 1d6 piercing damage for each spell slot
above 3rd.


Unknown Spell 695
Casting Time: 1 reaction, which you take
immediately when a creature within range that you
can see is about to make an ability check for
initiative
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
You inject a jittery burst of power into one creature
within range, speeding its senses and reactions to
the point of near precognition. The creature makes
its ability check for initative with advantage.
“As a frequent user of this spell, I was once
considered about the long-term effects of
repeated castings. After centuries, I can confirm that despite the anxious energy it creates in the
body, there are no negative consequences. I drink
a cup of kaethe every morning, that deep brown
beverage known for conferring alert wakefulness,
and have concluded the nerveskitter  spell has a
very similar effect, though it is quicker and more
intense.”


Unknown Spell 696
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 20 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You play an enchanting lullaby that puts a creature
into a waking dream-like state, full of disturbing
and distracting sounds and images. You may target
up to six creatures of your choice within range who
can hear you. Each target must succeed on a
Wisdom saving throw or take 3d4 psychic damage
and be affected for the duration.
An affected creature has disadvantage on attack
rolls and cannot take reactions for the duration. A
creature affected by this spell makes another
Wisdom saving throw at the end of its turn. On a
successful save, the effect ends for it.
This spell has no effect on undead and constructs.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, the damage
increases by 1d4 for each slot level above 2nd.


Unknown Spell 697
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components:  S, M (a sprig of wolfsbane)
Duration:  1 month
You place a magical mark upon another creature.
The target is allowed a Wisdom saving throw to
negate the spell. This mark is only visible to you and
up to seven other creatures. It is visible even in

Page 216
magical or normal darkness. Even if the target
changes shape, turns invisible, or cloaks itself in an
illusion, the mark remains visible.


Unknown Spell 698
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
There is a bare whisper of rushing air as a protective
field of shadowy energy cloaks your body. For the
duration, you have resistance to force damage from
spells, and you take no damage from magic missile.
In addition, for the spell’s duration, whenever you
make a saving throw, roll a d4 and add the number
rolled as a bonus to your saving throw. The spell
ends at the end of the turn if you are exposed to
direct sunlight.


Unknown Spell 699
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self (50 foot radius)
Components:  V, S, M (a handful of sage)
Duration:  1 minute
Insects or arachnids with an Intelligence of 5 or less
will move as quickly as they can, taking the Dash
action if necessary, to get outside of the range of
this spell. For the duration, no insect or arachnid
with an Intelligence of 5 or less will enter the area of
this spell’s effect willingly.
Any insect with an Intelligence of 6 or higher
must make a Constitution saving throw when it
moves into the spell’s area or start its turn there. If
an insects or arachnid is controlled by magic, or if it
is an animal companion provided by a class feature,
race, or feat, it uses either its own saving throw
modifier or the saving throw modifier of the
creature it is connected in this way, whichever is
higher.


Unknown Spell 700
Casting Time: 1 reaction, which you take when you
make a Charisma (Intimidate) or Wisdom (Insight)
check against a creature you can see within range
Range: 30 feet
Components: V
Duration: Instantaneous
You can roll a d10 and add the number rolled to the
triggering ability check. In addition, any creature
you can see within range must make a Constitution
saving throw if it is a shapechanger, a spellcaster
concentrating on a transmutation or illusion spell,
or currently the subject of a spell that has altered its
form. On a failure, the creature instantly reverts to
its original form (if applicable), and if it is
maintaining concnetration on a spell, the spell is
suppressed until the end of your next turn. At that
time, any suppressed spell resumes, provided that
its duration has not expired in the meantime.


Unknown Spell 701
Casting Time:  1 bonus action
Range: 60 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Instantaneous
You shout a verse from an ancient battle hymn to
spur an unexpected attack. Choose an ally within
range. That ally can use its reaction to make a melee
weapon attack against a hostile creature within its
reach. If no hostile creature is within reach, as part
of the same reaction, the ally can move up to 15 feet
closer to a hostile creature before making the
attack. On a hit, the target suffers the attack's
normal effects, and takes an additional 1d8 psychic
damage.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 7th level or higher, the psychic
damage increases by 1d8 for each slot level above
6th.

Page 217


Unknown Spell 702
Casting Time:  1 bonus action
Range: Self (15-foot cone)
Components:  V, S, M (a shield or metal plate
embossed with a symbol of the upper planes)
Duration:  1 round
You project a celestial radiance that protects your
allies but punishes an enemy. One creature of your
choice within a 15-foot cone originating from you
must make a Wisdom saving throw. On a failed
save, the creature takes 2d10 radiant damage. In
addition, choose up to three allies within the same
cone. You and those allies each gain a +2 bonus to
Armor Class until the end of your next turn.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the damage
increases by 1d10 for each slot level above 1st.


Unknown Spell 703
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 90 feet
Components:  V, S, M
Duration:  Instantaneous
You point your finger at a creature within range and
a thick, red welt appears on their body. You target
must make a Dexterity saving throw. If they fail,
they have disadvantage on their next attack roll or
saving throw. If they successfully save, this spell has
no effect.


Unknown Spell 704
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 120 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a dagger with an onyx
blade)
Duration:  Instantaneous
You reach into the Shadowfell and blast your
enemies with the essence of shadow. Choose a point
within range and every creature within 20 feet of that point must make a Wisdom saving throw.
Creatures take 12d6 necrotic damage if they fail the
save and half as much if they successfully save. This
spell is hard to control, and is infamous for hurting
its caster almost as much as its enemies. Once you
have cast this spell, make a Wisdom saving throw
against your own spell save DC. If you fail, you take
half the damage inflicted by the spell. This damage
bypasses resistance and immunity. If you succeed
you maintain control of the spell and take no
damage.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 5th level or higher, you inflict 1d6
extra damage for every level above 4th.


Unknown Spell 705
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self (15-foot cone)
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Instantaneous
All creatures caught in a 15-foot cone must make a
successful Constitution saving throw or be blinded
for 1d4 rounds. Any affected target makes a
Constitution saving throw at the end of each of its
turns. On a successful save, it is no longer blinded.


Unknown Spell 706
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S, M (a splinter)
Duration:  Instantaneous
You conjure a massive spear of oak and skewer your
foe with it. Make a ranged spell attack against one
creature within range. On a hit, the creature takes
6d10 piercing damage and must make a Strength
saving throw. If it fails, you can push it up to 30 feet
away from you. If the target ends this movement
adjacent to a solid obstacle (such as a wall), the
target is restrained until the end of your next turn.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 5th level or higher, the piercing

Page 218
damage increases by 1d10 for each slot level above
4th.


Unknown Spell 707
Casting Time:  24 hours
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S, M (a dagger and a collection of
rare inks worth at least 10,000 gp, which the spell
consumes)
Duration:  Instantaneous
You link your life force to an oak tree. The oak tree
must be at least 150 years old and cannot be the
home of another soul (including a dryad). A
magical, invisible tether connects you to the tree,
and as long as you maintain the connection you
cannot die. If you die your spirit is drawn into the
tree. Over the course of the next week a new body is
created inside the tree. Once the body is finished it
is placed within the closest empty space near the
oak tree, and the spell ends.
If someone attempts to bring you back to life the
body you abandoned suddenly decomposes,
violently. If you or the oak tree leave are no longer
on the same plane, the spell ends. If you enter a
dead magic zone, the spell ends. If the oak tree dies,
you immediately die and cannot be resurrected by
any means short of a wish or divine intervention.
You may use an action to get a general sense of the
oak tree’s condition. You do not have any sense of
what is happening around the oak tree, just the
general sense of the tree’s condition.


Unknown Spell 708
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 300 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Instantaneous
You summon an avalanche of snow out of a rift in
mid-air, burying your foes in icy graves. Choose a
point within range. The ground within a 60-foot
sphere centered on that point is covered in snow and becomes difficult terrain for 1 hour. In addition,
all creatures within a 40-foot radius sphere centered
on the sam epoint must make a Dexterity saving
throw. The effects of the saving throw depend on a
creature's distance from the center of the effect.
A creature within a 20-foot radius sphere from
the point you chose who fails its saving throw takes
10d12 cold damage and 10d12 bludgeoning damage,
and it is buried in the snow (with effects as
described below), or it takes half damage and isn’t
buried on a successful save.
A creature outside of the 20-foot radius sphere,
but within 40 feet of its center, who fails its saving
throw takes 5d12 cold and 5d12 bludgeoning
damage, is pushed 20 feet away from the center
point, and falls prone. On a successful saving throw,
the creature takes half as much damage and is
pushed only 10 feet from the center point. Any
creature that fails its saving throw by 5 or more is
also buried in the snow.
A creature buried in the snow is restrained, and it
is surrounded by snow that provides full cover. On
its turn, a buried creature can use its action to make
a Strength check against your spell save DC. On a
success, it frees itself. Other creatures within 5-feet
of a buried creature can attemt to dig it out, but
freeing one buried creature requires one or more
others to use a total of ten actions digging. This can
be one creature using ten actions, five creatures
using two actions each, or some other combination
that equals a total of ten actions, over however
many rounds this requires.
Structures and inanimate objects in the area
suffer the same effects as creatures, which often
causes small trees to be uprooted and structures to
collapse. Even after the snow melts, rubble and
other detritus are left behind. All flames in the area
are extinguished, whether they are magical or not.


Unknown Spell 709
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch

Page 219
Components:  V, S, M (a platinum key worth 100
gp)
Duration:  1 hour
You tap a lock with the key. For the duration, only
that key can open that lock. Any attempt to pick,
damage, or break the lock, magical or otherwise,
will fail. Even a dispel magic will fail if it targets the
lock. Once the spell is cast it will last for the
duration, even if the wizard who cast it wants it to
end. This spell does not confer any immunity or
special qualities to the door or container attached
to the lock.


Unknown Spell 710
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 15 feet
Components: V
Duration: Instantaneous
You release a burst of previously contained
emotions, unleashing a fury that batters your
enemies' minds. Each creature of your choice in a
20-foot radius sphere centered on you must make
an Intelligence saving throw. A target takes 6d10
psychic damage on a failed save, or half as much
damage on a successful one. Also on a failed save, a
target is deafened and has disadvantage on attack
rolls and on Intelligence, Wisdom, and Charisma
saving throws until the end of your next turn.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 7th level or higher, the damage
increases by 1d10 for each slot level above 6th.


Unknown Spell 711
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 120 feet
Components:  V
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You chant a maddening incantation that sears your
enemy's thoughts, blinding it to a looming threat.
Choose a target within range to make a Wisdom
saving throw. On a failed save, choose a second creature within range, which becomes invisible to
the target for the duration. At the end of each of the
target’s turns before the spell ends, the target must
succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or take 5d12
psychic damage. On a successful save, the spell
ends.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 7th level or higher, the damage
increases by 1d12 for each slot level above 6th.


Unknown Spell 712
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Instantaneous
You create an orb of cold roughly 3 inches wide that
shoots from the palm of your hand toward a target
within range. Make a ranged spell attack. On a hit,
the orb explodes, and the target takes 8d6 cold
damage.
In addition, a creature struck by the orb must
make a Constitution saving throw, or its speed is
reduced by half until the end of its next turn.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 5th level or higher, the damage
increases by 1d6 for each slot level above 4th.
"There are other versions of this spell
that conjure orbs of fire, thunder,
lightning, or acid. They all hurt.”


Unknown Spell 713
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 120 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a piece of a zombie’s scalp)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
A 4-inch orb of absolute darkness hovers over your
shoulder. As part of casting this spell, and as a
bonus action for the duration, you may direct it to
attack a target in range. Make a ranged spell attack,

Page 220
you inflict 8d8 necrotic damage on a hit. Whether
the orb hits or misses, it returns to you at the end of
your turn.
If you direct the orb to hit an undead ally, that
ally gains 20 temporary hit points.
At Higher Levels.  You can cast this spell using a
6th level or higher spell slot, you inflict plus 1d8
damage for each spell level above 5th. An undead
ally will gain 2 temporary hit points per spell level
above 5th.


Unknown Spell 714
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 90 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a small vial of whiskey)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
A small glass orb filled with a billowing green gas
appears in your hand. Any time during the spells
duration you can use an action to throw the orb at
any point within range. The orb burst and a 15 foot
diameter cloud of acidic vapors fills the area. The
cloud moves around corners. The cloud lasts for one
minute and does not require concentration, or until
it is dispelled by a strong wind. Its area is heavily
obscured. Any creature that moves into the cloud or
starts its turn there must make a Dexterity saving
throw. Creatures take 5d6 acid damage on a failed
save, and half as much on a successful one.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 4th level or higher, the damage
increases by 1d6 for each spell level above 3rd.


Unknown Spell 715
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 50 feet
Components:  V, S, M (an eye dropper full of acid)
Duration:  Instantaneous
A cauldron made of pure force appears above a
creature in range. The suddenly tips over and spills
boiling oil on the creature below. The creature
below must make a Dexterity saving throw. The target takes 5d4 fire damage on a failed save, and
half as much on a successful one.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, the damage
increases by 1d4 for each spell level above 2nd.


Unknown Spell 716
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a quartz crystal)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 hour
You cause an object to be lifted into 5 feet into the
air on a layer of floating crystals. If the object is
underwater, it is raised to the surface. The object
can weigh no more than 100 pounds.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, you may increase
the amount of weight by 100 pounds for each spell
level above 1st.


Unknown Spell 717
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 50 feet
Components:  V, S, M (the teeth of a dead man)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 10 minutes
The caster creates a 20 foot by 20 foot wall of
shadows and bone numbing cold within range. Any
creature moving into contact with this wall must
make a Wisdom saving throw or be stunned for 1
minute. Creatures that start their turn in contact
with the wall take 4d10 necrotic damage. Creatures
in contact with the wall may make a Wisdom save
at the end of their turn to break contact with the
wall and act normally.


Unknown Spell 718
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 100 feet

Page 221
Components:  V, S, M (a diamond)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 10 minutes
A 20 foot by 20 foot wall of glittering, razor sharp
diamonds appear. Any creature that moves into
contact with the diamonds (whether under their
own volition or from some other effect like
thunderwave spell) must make a Dexterity saving
throw. The creature take 6d10 slashing damage on a
failed save and half as much on a successful one.


Unknown Spell 719
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 50 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a lead crystal
and a then sheet of steel)
Duration:  Concentration,
up to 10 minutes
You conjure a 20 foot by 20
foot wall of grey fog. Hungry
faces appear in the fog
whenever a spellcaster gets
within 10 feet. The first
creature to come into
contact with the wall is
hit with a 3rd level
dispel magic as if it was
cast by the same caster
who conjured the wall. Once
a creature has come into
contact with the wall, the
spell ends.
At Higher Levels.
When you cast this spell
using 5th level or higher
spell, you may increase the
level of dispel magic by
one level for every spell
level above 4th.


Unknown Spell 720
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 100 feet
Components:  V, S, M
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
When this spell is cast you may conjure a
hemisphere with a 20 foot diameter or a 20 foot by
20 foot wall. Once the shape has been chosen it
cannot be changed. Either shape is made out of
crackling bolts of lightning. A creature that comes
into contact with either shape must make Dexterity
saving throw. The creature takes 4d8 electrical

Page 222
damage and makes their next saving throw with
disadvantage on a failed save, and takes half as
much damage and may roll saves without
disadvantage on a successful one. Any creature
wearing metal armor makes this save with
disadvantage.


Unknown Spell 721
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 50 feet
Components:  V,S, M (a needle and ashes)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You create a 20 foot by 20 foot wall of black energy.
As you approach the wall it becomes freezing cold
and the warmth seems to be leeched from your
bones. A creature that comes into contact with the
wall must make a Constitution saving throw. They
take 4d10 necrotic damage on a failed save and half
as much on a successful one. In addition, anyone
who fails the save cannot take any reactions for 1
minute. It can repeat the Constitution save at the
end of each of its turns to act normally.
“Strangely, the late Otiluke’s ‘screen’ spells are among
the least well-known of his spells, when I have
actually found them to be his most useful.
“Despite his well-known lack of common sense,
Otiluke had an innovative genius for researching new
spells, a creativity on par with Drawmij or Tenser.


Unknown Spell 722
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 120 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a ruby and a sapphire)
Duration:  Instantaneous A red crystal appears in front of you and streaks
toward your target. A split second later a blue
crystal appears and streaks toward the same target.
Once the red crystal reaches your target it explodes,
an instant later the blue crystal explodes at the
same place. Every creature within 20 feet of the
exploding crystals must make a Dexterity saving
throw. Because of the dual nature of the attack,
these Dexterity saves are made with disadvantage.
Targets take 4d8 fire and 4d8 cold damage on a
failed save, and half as much on a successful one.
This spell deals double damage to objects and
structures.


Unknown Spell 723
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a crystal sphere)
Duration:  Instantaneous
You create a number of 6 inch orbs of solid force
equal to your spellcasting ability modifier. An object
or liquid can be placed in these orbs and safely
contained. The orbs cannot be damaged by physical
force and time does not pass for anything placed
within the orb. The orbs may be destroyed by a
dispel magic or a disintegrate. If an orb is destroyed,
the contents are unharmed.


Unknown Spell 724
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 50 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a small diamond)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You create a 20 foot by 20 foot wall of ice crystals
that form, shatter, and form again. A creature
coming into contact with the wall must make a
Constitution saving throw. They take 3d10 cold
damage and half their movement cut in half for 1
minute if they fail the save, and half as much
damage and no movement penalty if they succeed.

Page 223


Unknown Spell 725
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 50 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a jewel engraved with one
rune for each color)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You create a 20 foot by 20 foot screen or a
hemisphere 20 feet in diameter. The screen is made
of pure energy, one of the colors of the rainbow.
The effect of the spell depends on the color:
Red. Any creature that comes into contact with
the screen must make a Wisdom save. The target
takes 8d8 cold damage on a failed save and half as
much on a successful one.
Orange.  Any creature that comes into contact
with the screen must make a Wisdom save. The
target takes 8d8 fire damage on a failed save and
half as much on a successful one.
Yellow. Any creature that comes into contact
with the screen must make a Wisdom save. The
target takes 8d8 thunder damage on a failed save
and half as much on a successful one.
Green. Any creature that comes into contact with
the screen is the target of a dispel magic. Treat it as
if it was cast by the caster as a third level spell.
Blue. Any creature that comes into contact with
the screen must make a Wisdom save. The target
takes 8d8 psychic damage on a failed save and half
as much on a successful one.
Indigo. Any undead that comes into contact with
the screen must make a Wisdom save. That undead
takes 4d8 radiant damage on a failed save, and is
stunned for one round. If the undead saves it takes
half as much damage, and is not stunned.
Violet. Any creature that comes into contact with
the screen is the target of a remove curse. Treat it as
if it was cast by the caster as a third level spell.
You can change the color of the screen as a bonus
action.


Unknown Spell 726
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S, M (a lodestone)
Duration:  1 minute
You create a boulder-sized orb of force that you can
load into a catapult or trebuchet. Before the orb is
fired, it is made of pure force and can only be
destroyed by disintegrate or dispel magic. Once the
orb has been fired you can choose one of the
following effects:
 Crystal Shards.  At any point within the range
of the catapult or trebuchet the orb explodes
into crystal shards. Everyone within 20 feet of
the exploding orb must make a Dexterity saving
throw. Targets take 6d8 force damage on a
failed save, and half as much on a successful
one.
 Liquid Fire. The orb strikes any point within
the range of the catapult or trebuchet and
shatters, spraying liquid fire that sticks to
anything. Everyone within 30 feet of the
shattered orb must make a Dexterity saving
throw. Targets take 4d6 fire damage in a failed
save and half as much on a successful one. The
target continues to burn. At the beginning of
their turn the target must make a Dexterity
saving throw, taking 4d6 fire damage on a failed
save and half as much on a successful one. Once
the target makes three Dexterity saving throws,
the fire goes out. The fire lasts for 10 minutes
and creatures that start their turn into the area
or moves into the area takes 2d6 fire damage on
a failed Dexterity save.
 Wrecking Ball. The orb strikes any target
within the range of the catapult or trebuchet. A
split second before impact the orb becomes
impossibly dense. Choose one target within
range, which must make a Dexterity saving
throw, taking 10d10 bludgeoning damage on a
failed save and no damage on a successful one.
This effect deals double damage against objects.

Page 224


Unknown Spell 727
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S, M (a piece of charcoal)
Duration:  Instantaneous
A crystal sphere about 3 inches in diameter and
filled with noxious smoke appears in your hand. As
part of casting the spell, you must throw this orb at
any point within 50 feet. The crystal shatters and
fills the area with a choking gas. Everyone within 10
feet of the shattering sphere must make a
Constitution saving throw. Targets take 2d4 poison
damage on a failed save and half as much on a
successful one. The smoke lasts for 1 minute. Any
creature that moves into the cloud or starts their
turn inside the cloud must makes a Constitution
saving throw. They take 1d4 poison damage on a
failed save and no damage on a successful one.


Unknown Spell 728
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a hemispherical piece of
clear crystal and a matching hemispherical piece of
acacia gum, and a pair of bar magnets)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
This spell functions the same as Otiluke’s resilient
sphere, except that a creature or object inside
weighs only one-sixteenth its normal weight.


Unknown Spell 729
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 90 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a set of chimes)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You chant and clap, targeting one creature within
range. That creature must make Wisdom saving throw. If the creature saves the spell ends. If the
creature saves it immediately begins to dance along
with your chanting. For the duration you can use
your bonus action to force that creature can only
dance and clap on its turn. The creature gains +2 to
its AC, its random jerky movements are hard to
predict. The creature can repeat the Wisdom saving
throw at the end of its turn to break the spell.


Unknown Spell 730
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 50 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a piece of a shattered crystal
ball)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You show a target how important their life is to the
multiverse. It must make a Wisdom saving throw or
be stunned and fall prone. At the end of your next it
is no longer stunned, but it is still prone. At the
start of its next turn your target must make a
Wisdom saving throw or be overwhelmed by its
own insignificance, using all of its movement to get
as far away as possible from any creatures near it. A
creature that fails the save will only fight if forced to
defend itself. It can repeat the Wisdom saving
throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the
spell on a success.


Unknown Spell 731
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 120 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a live leech)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
This spell strikes creatures with wracking pains and
agony, 2even if they are unliving. Roll 12d8, and
total the dice. The number rolled is the number of
hit points of creatures this spell can affect.
Creatures within 20 feet of a point you choose
within range are affected in ascending order of their
current hit points (ignoring unconscious creatures

Page 225
and constructs, who are not affected by this spell).
Subtract each creature's hit points from the total
before moving on to the creature with the next
lowest hit points. A creature's hit points must be
equal to or less than the remaining total for that
creature to be affected.
Starting with the creature that has the lowest
current hit points, each creature affected by this
spell has disadvantage on attack rolls and ability
checks until the spell ends. Each creature can
attempt to resist, but only at the risk of making its
agony even worse. Each creature affected by the
spell can choose whether to make a Constitution
saving throw to try to resist the spell’s effect at the
end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself
with a success. However, if the creature fails the
saving throw, it takes 3d6 psychic damage. A
creature that fails this saving throw four times in a
row is incapacitated with pain, in addition to the
spell's other effects.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 5th level or higher, roll an additional
2d8 for each slot level above 4th.
“Though negotiation is preferable, for some creatures
pain is a much more effective and expedient form of
motivation.”


Unknown Spell 732
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You share in the pain of your enemy, risking your
own sanity, but gaining insights into how to defeat
it. For the duration, whenever a creature within 30
feet of you takes damage, you can use your reaction
to take psychic damage equal to half the amount of
damage taken by that creature. This damage cannot
be reduced or redirected in any way. Whenever you do so, all attacks against that creature are made at
advantage until the end of your next turn.


Unknown Spell 733
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 120 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a small ball of powdery clay
soaked in wasp venom)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You cause a 10-foot radius paralytic field to form at
a point you see within range. A creature that starts
its turn within the field must make a Wisdom
saving throw or be paralyzed until the end of its
next turn. On a successful save, the creature is
unaffected that turn.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 9th level, the radius of the paralytic
field increases to 20 feet.


Unknown Spell 734
Casting Time:  1 bonus action
Range: Self
Components: V

Page 226
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
The next time you hit a creature with a weapon
attack before the spell ends, your weapon crackles
with force, and the attack deals an extra 5d10 force
damage to the target. Also, if the attack reduces the
target to half its hit point maximum or fewer, the
target is paralyzed until the end of its next turn.


Unknown Spell 735
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S, M (the tongue of a corpse)
Duration:  Instantaneous
You touch a corpse and you can see what that
person looked like before they died. This spell will
work no matter how decayed the remains.
At Higher Levels.  If you cast this spell using a
3rd level spell slot, you can see the last minute of
the corpse’s life. If you cast this spell using a 5th
level spell slot you can see the last hour of the
corpse’s life. If you cast this spell using a 7th level
spell slot, you can see the final 24 hours of the
corpse’s life.


Unknown Spell 736
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components:
Duration: Instantaneous
For a brief moment, you create the illusion of an
attacking creature in the mind of a single foe.
Choose one creature within range, which must
succeed on a Charisma saving throw or it takes 1d6
psychic damage. A creature which takes psychic
damage from this spell suffers disadvantage on the
next Wisdom (Perception) check or ranged attack
roll it makes before the start of its next turn.
The spell's damage increases by 1d6 when you
reach 5th level (2d6), 11th level (3d6), and 17th level
(4d6).


Unknown Spell 737
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 1 mile
Components: V, S, M (the hoof or leg-hair of a
camel)
Duration:  Instantaneous
You and up to six willing creatures of your choice
that you can see within 60 feet of you teleport to a
spot you can see within range. If there isn’t an open
space for all the targets to occupy at the arrival
point, the spell fails.


Unknown Spell 738
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self (50 foot cone)
Components:  V, S, M (a fan)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
For the duration of the spell, nonliving objects,
including undead and constructs, are buffeted as if
they are in a strong wind. Torches will go out and
curtains and loose cloth will be buffeted and ripped
from their emplacements if not held by a living
creature. Fog and cloud, both magical and
mundane, are immediately pushed to the edge of
the spell effect. Undead and constructs will be
buffeted and must make a Strength saving throw or
treat all terrain as difficult terrain for the duration.


Unknown Spell 739
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 120 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a vial of doppelganger blood
that is less than 1 week old)
Duration:  Instantaneous
While casting this spell you must name another
spell and choose one creature within range. You
must cast the named spell on your next turn. The
creature you chose must be the target of that spell,
or included in its effects. They will automatically be

Page 227
hit if the spell requires an attack roll, will
automatically fail their saving throw of the spell
allows one, and will become vulnerable to the type
of damage the spell inflicts. If the named spell
persists for more than one round the named
creature regains damage resistance and immunities
and can make saving throws as normal after the first
round.


Unknown Spell 740
Casting Time:  1 bonus action
Range: Self
Components:  V
Duration:  Concentration up to 1 minute
The next time you hit with a melee weapon attack
during this spell’s duration, your attack deals an
extra 1d8 magical piercing damage. In addition,
when you deal this extra damage, the target and two
other creatures of your choice within 5 feet of you
or the target take psychic damage equal to your
spellcasting ability modifier. When a creature takes
this psychic damage, the next time it makes an
attack that does not target you before the start of
your next turn, it has disadvantage on the attack
roll.


Unknown Spell 741
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self
Components: V, M (a magnifying glass)
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
You enchant your mind and senses, becoming a
master of observation and deductive reasoning. For
the duration, you can't be surprised, ranged attack
rolls made against you cannot benefit from
advantage, and whenever you hit with an attack
roll, you deal an extra 1d8 psychic damage to one
target of that attack. In addition, until the spell
ends, you have advantage on all of the following
rolls:
 Dexterity saving throws  Dexterity checks for initiative
 Intelligence (Investigation, Nature, or History)
checks
 Wisdom (Insight, Perception, or Survival)
checks
After the spell ends, you have advantage on all
ability checks to accurately recall anything you saw
or heard while the spell was active.
This spell ends early if you hit the same creature
with an attack roll more than once.


Unknown Spell 742
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S, M (a vile of pus)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 hour
The creature you touch must make a Wisdom
saving throw. On a failure, its features immediately
change, making it appear to be the bearer of a
terrible and highly contagious plague. The illusion
is olfactory, tactile, and visual. Any creatures that
can see the creature must make a Wisdom saving
throw. Any that fail are frightened of the plague
bearer for the duration. A creature frightened of the
plague bearer can repeat the Wisdom save at the
end of each of its turns. On a success, it is no longer
frightened by the plague bearer.
The plague bearer or any creature not frightened
of it can use an action to inspect the various oozing
pores and rancid flesh, making an Intelligence
(Investigation or Medicine) check against your
spellcasting save DC. On a success, the spell ends.


Unknown Spell 743
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 120 feet
Components:  V, S, M (an ebony skull etched in
sliver worth at least 5,000 gp, which is consumed by
the spell)
Duration:  Instantaneous

Page 228
When you cast this spell, the skeletons and bodies
of dead creatures within range permanently rise as
undead creatures that follow your commands. All
the risen dead have maximum hit points for their
hit dice. The bones become skeletons, and the
bodies become zombies.
You are able to animate a maximum of 24
Medium sized or smaller undead creatures with a
single casting of this spell, or up to 12 Large, or six
Huge creatures.
After 24 hours, you must reassert control over the
undead you create, or they wander off. You can
affect double the number of creatures you could
normally create when casting this spell to reassert
control.


Unknown Spell 744
Casting Time:  1 minute
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S, M (a black piece of cloth
shaped like an arched doorway)
Duration:  8 hours
You conjure an extradimensional cave that has a
single entrance on the plane from which the spell
was cast. You can only cast this spell on a surface
made of rock or some form of earth within range.
The entry point looks like a dark cave entrance that
is 5 feet wide and 10 feet high. Only those you
designate can enter the cave, and all other creatures
and objects are barred from passing through. Spells
and other magical effects can’t extend through the
entry portal or be cast through it. The entry portal is
shut and made invisible behind you when you
enter. You can open it again from your side at will.
You can choose the shape of the cave inside. You
can form it into a hemispherical dome or a sphere
with a radius of up to 30 feet. It takes the form of a
dark, wet cavern. This area contains enough oxygen
to sustain as many creatures as can fit in the area
for the duration of the spell. Edible fungus grows
along the walls, and condensation drips down one
wall into a pool of fresh, clean water that never
seems to run dry. External conditions such as weather do not affect the pleasant atmosphere of
the cave, and nothing except the designated
creatures can pass through the portal in either
direction. Until the spell ends, you can command
the interior to become dimly lit or dark.
At the end of the spell’s duration, all within the
pocket cave return to the spot where they entered
or else to the nearest open space, if that spot is
occupied.
“Most sources state that the orc god
Gruumsh was the first to grant his
clerics this spell, which seems oddly
inventive for the one-eyed one. However,
some sages believe that another orc
pantheon deity granted it first, and
Gruumsh’s shamans demanded credit be
given to their god instead. That seems
much more plausible.”


Unknown Spell 745
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S, M (a fang or stinger from a
venomous creature)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You channel venom into your victim. The creature
you touch takes 3d10 poison damage and is
poisoned until the end of its next turn. Until the
spell ends, the creature must make a Constitution
saving throw at the end of each of its turns. If the
target fails the save, it takes 3d10 damage and
remains poisoned until the end of its next turn. If it
succeeds, the spell ends.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 4th or higher level, the duration you
may concentrate increases by 1 minute for each slot
level above 3rd.


Unknown Spell 746
Casting Time: 1 bonus action

Page 229
Range: Self
Components: V
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
The next time you hit a creature with a weapon
attack before the spell ends, your weapon inflicts an
extra 1d6 poison damage, and the target must make
a Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, the
creature is poisoned for 1 minute. The creature can
make a new saving throw at the end of each of its
turns to end the poisoned condition early. On a
successful save, the spell ends.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the initial poison
damage increases by 1d6 for each slot level above
1st.


Unknown Spell 747
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 90 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a viper’s fang)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
A number of eerie green stars equal to your
spellcasting ability modifier appear above your
head. You can use a bonus action to fire one or
more of the stars at a creature or creatures in range.
Once a creature has been hit by this spell it is
immune to it for 24 hours. Any unused stars wink
out at the end of the spell’s duration. The stars
radiate dim light out to 15 feet.
A creature you fire a star at must make a
Dexterity save. If they fail they take 2d4 poison
damage and are poisoned until the end of your next
turn. If they succeed they take no damage and are
not poisoned.


Unknown Spell 748
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 90 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a small white cone)
Duration:  Instantaneous A white ray of pure cold jumps from your hand to
the target. Make a ranged spell attack against a
target within range. On a hit, the target takes
10d6+50 cold damage.
"Don't miss.”


Unknown Spell 749
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a mirror)
Duration:  Instantaneous
You enchant a body of water of any size and name a
creature. This can be a living or dead individual.
The creature you name, or their corpse, does not
have to be physically present. The most important
events of that creature’s life will play out in the
water. The whole event will take about an hour.
You can also choose to view a specific story from
the target’s life. You must have general knowledge
of the story, but you don’t need to know specifics. If
you name a creature that does not want to have its
life events displayed, it can make a Charisma saving
throw to resist the spell. On a success, the pool
shows a series of random images.
“Another mysterious spell. The events it depicts
always seem to be momentous, but how it
determines which events matter enough to be
shown is unclear. This spell’s judgement doesn’t
seem to parallel that of the caster or the target.”


Unknown Spell 750
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self (30 foot radius)
Components:  V, S, M (a 6-inch crystal sphere)
Duration:  Instantaneous
You create a perfect picture of everything within 30
feet of you, which is permanently captured in the

Page 230
crystal sphere. The sphere records a perfect image
of everything within 30 feet of it. As an action, you
can withdraw the picture from the sphere at any
point as an illusory image. You choose the picture’s
size, from 6 inches to 15 feet in diameter. You can
withdraw the picture as often as you wish. If you
cast the spell again, you can place a new picture
within the sphere, but the old one is lost.


Unknown Spell 751
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self (10-foot radius)
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to
1 minute
You radiate life-giving positive
energy in a 10-foot radius. Each
living creature that starts its turn
within 10 feet of you regains 5 hit
points.


Unknown Spell 752
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self
Components: S, M
(a ranged weapon)
Duration:
Instantaneous
You inscribe a
magical rune on a projectile,
causing it to erupt on impact into a cloud of magical
shards hostile to your enemies. As part of the action
used to cast this spell, you must make a ranged
weapon attack, otherwise, the spell ends. If the
attack hits, the target takes an additional 2d10
piercing damage. Hit or miss, the area around the
target is then filled with magical shards. The target
and each creature within 5 feet of it must succeed
on a Dexterity saving throw or take 5d6 force
damage. At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 4th level or higher, the force damage
increases by 1d6 for each slot level above 3rd.


Unknown Spell 753
Casting Time: 1 reaction, which you take when you
finish a short or long rest
Range: Self
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
You perceive a series of images
that show you future events. You
ask a single question concerning a
specific goal, event, or activity to
occur within seven days. The DM
offers a truthful reply. The reply might
be a short phrase, an explanation of
your own emotional reaction, or a
description of a single image you saw.
The spell doesn’t consider any
possible circumstances that might
change the outcome, such as the
casting of additional spells, or the loss
or gain of a companion.
After you cast this spell, unless you
treat yourself with a special calming
tincture that uses 25 gold
pieces worth of
ingredients, you have
disadvantage on
Wisdom, Dexterity,
and Intelligence
checks, and on
Constitution saving throws to maintain
concentration for 10 minutes.
If you cast the spell two or more times before
finishing your next long rest, you receive
increasingly confusing visions that muddle your
mind. For each casting after the first, the duration
of the negative effects for not imbibing a calming
tincture increase by an additional (cumulative) 10
minutes, and there is a cumulative 25* chance that
the information you perceive is random and

Page 231
possibly unrelated to the question you asked. The
DM makes this roll in secret.


Unknown Spell 754
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 hour
You extend your senses to perceive the near future.
For the duration of the spell, you gain the following
benefits:
 You have advantage on all Wisdom checks and
initiative checks.
 Once per round, when you hit a creature that
has not yet acted in this combat with an attack
roll, that attack deals an extra 1d8 damage.
 If you are surprised, you can end this spell
immediately to no longer be surprised.
 If you are attacked, you can use your reaction to
end this spell immediately and give yourself a +5
to AC, including against the triggering attack,
until the beginning of your next turn.
 If you roll a Dexterity save, you can use your
reaction to end this spell immediately and give
yourself advantage on that Dexterity save and
all other Dexterity saves until the beginning of
your next turn.


Unknown Spell 755
Casting Time:  2 hours
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S, M (a door knocker)
Duration:  Until discharged
While casting this spell, you designate one creature
as the caller and tell it a command word that is used
to activate the wormhole. The caller may discharge
the spell by repeating the command word and
creating the wormhole. Communication and travel
are possible through the wormhole, which has infinite range and can cross dimensional
boundaries.
Once the caller says the command word, the
caster hears a voice alerting that someone is calling.
The door knocker raises five feet off the ground. By
grasping the door knocker, the caster can open a
portal to the caller. The caster and the caller can
speak through the portal and the caster can look
around without stepping through. Spells can be cast
through the wormhole. The caster can also go
through the wormhole and join the caller. The
caster may collapse the wormhole at will. However,
the wormhole will only last 1 minute per spellcaster
level before collapsing, whether the caster wishes it
or not. If the wormhole remains open, anyone can
pass through.


Unknown Spell 756
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 120 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Instantaneous
When casting this spell, you point and make a
ranged spell attack as you shoot a colored ray at a
target you can see within range. On a successful hit,
the target is blinded until the end of its next turn.
In addition, roll a d8 and consult the following
table to determine what color the ray is, and what
the secondary effect is:

Page 232


Unknown Spell 757
Casting Time:  1 action
Components:  V, S
Range: 50 feet
Duration:  Concentration, up to 10 minutes
Your target must make a Wisdom saving throw. If it
fails, its mind opens itself to you. You gain access to
all of its memories and knowledge, even things the
target has buried deep in its subconscious. You may
learn the answer to one question per round. Your
question and the answer are conveyed
telepathically, and you do not need to speak the
same language. Creatures with an Intelligence less
than 3 may only answer in mental pictures.
The target is not aware of the probe unless you
wish it to be. If the target resists the probe
successfully, they know that someone has tried to
cast a spell on them, but not what the spell was nor
who cast it.


Unknown Spell 758
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
Your force of will teleports an object a short
distance away. You teleport one object you are
holding to an unoccupied space within range.
Alternatively, you can teleport the object to a
willing creature within range.
You can either cause the object to land at the
creature’s feet, or you can give the creature the
option to grasp it with a free hand, which requires
the creature to make a Dexterity (Acrobatics) check
with a DC of 11. If the creature succeeds, it is
instantly holding the object. If the check fails, the
object falls to its feet.  This cantrip can only teleport objects that weigh
25 pounds or less. In addition, it cannot affect
objects that you are not already holding when you
cast the spell.


Unknown Spell 759
Casting Time:  1 minute
Range: 1 mile
Components:  V, S, M (a magnifying glass)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
Choose a 5 foot square within the range. That
square is recreated within 10 feet of you. The image
is purely visual, with no sound of smell. The image
is an obvious illusion, and creatures can see through
it. The spell creates a snapshot of the 5 foot area you
chose when you cast the spell, but nothing in the
area moves or changes. The area appears exactly as
it does at the time of the spell, and you do gain any
special means of vision. For instance, if the area is
covered in darkness, either natural or magical, then
so is the snapshot.


Unknown Spell 760
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S, M (a small replica of a wizard)
Duration:  Until dispelled or triggered
This spell functions the same as silent image, except
that the image remains invisible until triggered. You
decide what triggers the image when you cast the
spell, but the trigger must be audible, tactile,
olfactory, or visual. The most typical triggers
include touching an object that had the spell cast
upon it, stepping within 10 feet of the point where
the spell was cast, or speaking a certain phrase.
Once triggered, the image appears at the point
where you cast the spell and lasts for 10 minutes,
after which time the spell ends. You can pre-
program the image to move around once activated,
in a similar manner to silent image.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using

Page 233
an 8th level spell slot you can add sound to the
image.


Unknown Spell 761
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 5 feet
Components: V, S, M (a melee weapon)
Duration: Instantaneous
You cast your mind's eye forward a split second,
predicting the best moment for a telling blow. As
part of the action used to cast this spell, you must
make a melee weapon attack against a creature
within range, otherwise the spell fails. You can use
your spellcasting ability instead of Strength for the
attack and damage bonus for this attack. If the
attack hits, it inflicts an additional 2d6 damage of
the weapon’s type, and the next attack roll made
against the target before the end of your next turn is
made with advantage.
“The powers of the divination school are often
undervalued by mages who focus their training
on combat. This is one of many spells which
proves their folly.”


Unknown Spell 762
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S, M (a heavy lead weight shaped
like a shield)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 10 minutes
Until the spell ends, one willing creature you touch
is protected against flying creatures. A creature with
a fly speed has disadvantage on attack rolls against
the subject, and when such a creature causes the
target to make a Dexterity saving throw, it has
advantage on that roll. The target also can’t be
charmed or frightened by flying creatures. If the
target is already charmed or frightened by such a creature, the target has advantage on any new
saving throw against the relevant effect.
“Some of the more unique spells
described in this grimoire were first
practiced among the spellcasters of
Faerûn’s Shining South.
“In this region of trade and commerce,
many consider magic a commodity, just
like precious metals and foodstuffs.
Ships arrive in every port along the
coast of the Great Sea carrying strange
and wondrous spells, items, and
components from distant lands.”


Unknown Spell 763
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S
Duration:  1 hour
The protected creature has resistance to damage
caused by cantrips and advantage on saving throws
against any effects caused by cantrips.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, the duration
increases by 1 hour for each slot level above 2nd.


Unknown Spell 764
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self
Components:  V, S, M (a piece of turtle shell)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
A magical shield protects you from ranged attacks
from nonmagical weapons, even larger projectiles
fired by catapult and ballista. For the duration, you

Page 234
are immune to nonmagical bludgeoning, piercing,
and slashing damage from ranged weapon attacks.


Unknown Spell 765
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S, M (a broken piece of a weapon)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 10 minutes
The protected creature has resistance to damage
caused by nonmagical weapons.


Unknown Spell 766
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a ghoul’s fingernails)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
For the duration, you or the creature you choose
within range cannot be paralyzed by magical
means. If you are paralyzed by nonmagical means (a
shattered spine, for example) then this spell has no
effect.


Unknown Spell 767
Casting Time:  1 reaction
Range: Self
Components:  V, S, M (an amulet, see spell
description)
Duration:  Instantaneous
Before you can cast this spell, you must create an
amulet. You can crush the amulet to become
immune to a spell that just targeted you or includes
you in its area of effect. The spell effects other
targets within its area of effect normally.
The amulet you create must be worth 100 gp per
spell level you wish to effect. For example, if you
want to create an amulet that can ward you against
a 3rd level or lower spell, you must spend 300 gp to
create the amulet. Creating the amulet takes 1 day for every 100 gp you spend. During that day you
must spend 8 hours making the amulet. If you miss
more than two days during that time, the amulet
and gold are destroyed and you must start over
again.


Unknown Spell 768
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: 120 feet
Components: S
Duration: Instantaneous
You analyze the aura of one creature you can see
within range and force it to make a Wisdom saving
throw. If they fail, you learn its current mood
(angry, frightened, bored, etc.), and have advantage
on your next Charisma (Persuasion) check versus
that creature.


Unknown Spell 769
Casting Time: 1 reaction, which you take when a
creature within range that you can see would hit
with an attack
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
You impose disadvantage on the attack, possibly
causing it to miss. If it still hits, the creature must
make an Intelligence saving throw. It takes 3d8
psychic damage on a failed save, or half as much
damage on a successful one.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, the damage
increases by 1d8 for each slot level above 2nd.


Unknown Spell 770
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self (30 foot radius)
Components:  V, S, M (the eyes of a diviner)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 hour

Page 235
You channel your own most horrific memories to
emit a field of painful psionic energy that disrupts
attempts at magical spying. For the duration, any
creature that attempts to cast a divination spell that
targets a creature within 30 feet of you, it must
make a Wisdom saving throw, taking 6d6 psychic
damage on a failure, and half as much on a success.
Whether or not the creature fails the saving
throw, if the divination spell it attempted to cast is
3rd level or less, then that spell also automatically
fails, as if it had been countered with counterspell.


Unknown Spell 771
Casting Time:  1 reaction, which you take when you
roll an Intelligence or Charisma save or when you
would take psychic damage
Range: Self
Components:  V, S
Duration:  1 round
You quickly fortify your mind against a sudden
psychic attack. You gain 4 temporary hit points, and
until the start of your next turn, you gain the
following benefits, including against the triggering
effect:
 You have advantage on Intelligence and
Charisma saves
 You gain resistance to psychic damage.


Unknown Spell 772
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
You invade another creature’s mind, and for one
split second, you cause them to perceive some
image, noise, or memory that would cause them
stress. Choose a target you can see or hear within
range. The creature makes an Intelligence saving
throw. If it fails, the creature takes 1d6 psychic
damage, and it has disadvantage on the next
Wisdom check it makes before the end of your next turn. If the creature has not yet acted this combat, it
suffers an additional effect: it makes its next attack
roll at disadvantage.
You do not know what image the creature saw
unless you can read its thoughts by other means
(such as the detect thoughts  spell). If the creature
fails the saving throw by 5 or more, it does not
realize a cantrip caused this effect and believes the
flash of emotional pain it experienced came from its
own mind.
At Higher Levels.  This spell’s damage increases
by 1d6 when you reach 5th level (2d6), 11th level
(3d6), and 17th level (4d6).


Unknown Spell 773
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self (60-foot cone)
Components:  V, S, M (a drum, which you play
during the casting of the spell)
Duration:  Instantaneous
Your allies' attacks fall like the beats of your drum,
pummelling your foes. Each creature in a 60-foot
cone must make a Constitution saving throw. A
creature takes 10d8 thunder damage on a failed
save, or half as much damage on a successful one.
If a creature that failed its saving throw is hit by
an attack roll from one of your allies before the end
of your next turn, it is stunned until the end of its
next turn.
The sound of the drumming from this spell can
be heard up to 300 feet away.


Unknown Spell 774
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 5 feet
Components: V
Duration: 1 round
As part of the action used to cast this spell, you
must make an unarmed strike or melee weapon
attack against one creature within the spell's range,
otherwise the spell fails. On a hit, the target suffers

Page 236
the attack's normal effects. In addition, a black web
of necrotic energy radiates across its skin from
where it was struck until the start of your next turn.
If the target willingly takes a reaction before then, it
immediately takes 1d8 necrotic damage, and the
spell ends.
This spell's damage increases when you reach
higher levels. At 5th level, the melee attack deals an
extra 1d8 necrotic damage to the target, and the
damage the target suffers for taking a reaction
increases to 2d8. Both damage rolls increase by 1d8
at 11th level and 17th level.


Unknown Spell 775
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self (10-foot radius sphere)
Components:  V, M (a melee weapon)
Duration:  Instantaneous
You strike a blow fueled by the fury of the earth,
channeling volcanic energy into the very ground
beneath your feet.
As part of the action used to cast this spell, make
a melee weapon attack against a creature within
range. If the attack hits, the
target is knocked prone,
and the ground within a
10-foot radius sphere
centered on you becomes
difficult terrain until it is
cleared. All creatures
besides you within the
affected area must roll a
Strength saving throw. A
creature takes 2d6
bludgeoning damage and
2d6 fire damage and is
knocked prone on a failed
save. If the saving throw is
successful, the creature takes
half the damage, and isn’t
knocked prone. Molten lava
ignites flammable objects in
the area that aren't worn or carried.
The spell’s area remains difficult terrain until it is
cleared. Each 5-foot-square portion of the area
requires at least 1 minute to clear by hand.
Firenewts and earth-based or fire-based
elemental creatures (such as gargoyles or
salamanders) do not take damage from this spell.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 4th level or higher, the bludgeoning
damage and fire damage both increase by 1d6 for
each slot level above 3rd.


Unknown Spell 776
Casting Time:  1 bonus action
Range: 60 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a thin-bladed razor)
Duration:  1 minute
You summon a gentle wind spirit whose influence
grants serenity and good fortune to your allies.
Choose a 15-foot cube within range. The next three
saving throws rolled by your allies within that area
before the spell ends are made with advantage.
Once the third saving throw is
rolled with advantage, the spell
ends.
At Higher Levels.  When
you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 5th level or
higher, the number of saving
throws made at advantage
are increased by 1 for every 2
slot levels above 3rd.


Unknown Spell 777
Casting Time:  1 bonus
action
Range: Self
Components:  S
Duration:  1 round
You gain the speed of a
magical creature. For the

Page 237
rest of the turn, your walking speed is increased by
10 feet, and you have advantage on Dexterity
(Acrobatics) checks.
Range: Self (20-foot radius)


Unknown Spell 778
Casting Time:  1 action
Components:  V, S, M (a porcupine’s quill)
Duration:  Instantaneous
Needle-sharp quills emerge from your skin, flying
outward in every direction. All creatures in a 20-
foot radius sphere centered on you must make a
Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, a creature
takes piercing damage from the quills. The amount
of damage depends on a creature’s size as shown on
the table below. On a successful saving throw, the
creature takes half the listed damage.
Unless a creature is an undead or a construct, on a
failed saving throw it has disadvantage on all its
saving throws and ability checks until the end of
your next turn as it writhes in pain.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 6th level or higher, the radius of the
sphere increases by 10 feet for each slot level above
5th. If the spell slot used is 7th level or higher, the
dice rolled for damage increases to d10s instead of
d6s.


Unknown Spell 779
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self (30 feet)
Components:  V, S, M (a porcupine quill) Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
Poisonous quills sprout from your forearms. You
can use the quills in melee, inflicting 1d8 piercing
damage and 1d8 poison damage plus your Strength
modifier on a successful melee attack.
You may also fire the quills at any target within
range. They inflict 1d8 piercing damage and 1d8
poison damage plus your Dexterity modifier on a
successful ranged attack.


Unknown Spell 780
Casting Time:  1 bonus action
Range: Self (5-foot radius)
Components:  V, M (any metal object)
Duration:  1 round
A magical ward of thin, wispy silver mist, seemingly
no more tangible than warm breath on a frosty
morning, gathers under enemy blows and turns
them aside. Until the end of your next turn, you and
any allies within 5 feet of you have half cover
against all enemies, and all Wisdom (Perception)
checks made to see you or those allies are rolled
with disadvantage.


Unknown Spell 781
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S, M (a whetstone)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You run your palm along a blade, and the magic in
your hand gives it a preternaturally keen edge.
Touch one slashing melee weapon. For the
duration, attacks with that weapon inflict a critical
hit on a roll of 19 or 20. Once the weapon inflicts a
critical hit, the spell ends. If the weapon doesn’t
inflict a critical hit during the spell’s duration, the
spell ends with no effect.
After the spell ends, the weapon retains a keen

Page 238
edge for the next 24 hours, as if an expert
swordmaster had sharpened it with a whetstone.


Unknown Spell 782
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 5 feet
Components:  V, M (a weapon)
Duration:  Instantaneous
As part of the action used to cast this spell, you
must make a melee attack with a weapon against
one creature within the spell's range, otherwise the
spell fails. On a hit, the target suffers the attack's
normal effects and takes an additional 1d10 cold
damage, as its blood turns to leaden ice and its
limbs grow heavy. Until the end of your next turn,
the target's speed is halved, it takes a -2 penalty to
AC and Dexterity saving throws, and it can't use
reactions. On the target’s next turn, it can use either
an action or a bonus action, not both. Regardless of
the creature's abilities or magic items, it can't make
more than one melee or ranged Attack during its
turn.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, the initial extra
damage dealt by the attack increases by 1d10 for
each slot level above 2nd.


Unknown Spell 783
Casting Time:  1 bonus action
Range: Self
Components:  S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
A series of precise, silent gestures places you in a
state in which you can run up anything that has any
substance, even if it could not normally bear your
weight: a cloud of dust, falling snowflakes, tiny
branches, cherry blossoms on the breeze, and so on.
For the duration, you gain a climbing speed equal to
your walking speed, and you can climb vertically, at
an angle, or move horizontally, through any unoccupied space, as long as there is anything more
substantial than air within that space and it is not
more than 40 feet above a surface on which you can
stand. The spell ends early if you are incapacitated,
restrained, or otherwise unable to move.
“The name of the moon elf swordmage and
bladesinger Quivaelyn Mondior is often left off
these spells, and some indicate that he is not
their true inventor, but rather merely recreated
effects that had been practiced in old Myth
Drannor. Quivaelyn is also well-known for
rediscovering lost elven traditions of battle
magic not long before the Time of Troubles and
for his later service as one of the most trusted
armathors bodyguards of Lady Ilsevele Miritar,
the seventh Coronal of the rebuilt realm of
Cormanthyr. He is known to have survived the
new Myth Drannor’s fall, entering the service of
a Cormyrean noble family for a time, but seems
to vanish from history a few years after.
“In any case, his devoted scholarship has
preserved many swordmage spells that would
otherwise have been lost.”
“Rumors say that Quivaelyn fell in love
with a human women, and settled down to
raise a family, either in the rebuilt port
of Ylraphon or somewhere on the Sword
Coast.


Unknown Spell 784
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 300 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Instantaneous
You cause a blast of radiant energy in a 20-foot
radius centered on a point within range. Any
creature caught in the blast takes 12d6 radiant

Page 239
damage, or half as much on a successful Dexterity
saving throw.
In addition, a creature caught in the blast must
make a Constitution saving throw or be stunned
until the end of its next turn.
Blinded or sightless creatures are not affected by
this spell.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 8th level or higher, the amount of
radiant damage increases by 1d6 for each slot level
above 7th.


Unknown Spell 785
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
Choose a point within range. Every creature within
10 feet of that point must make a Wisdom saving
throw. Those that fail are filled with the
overwhelming desire to murder you. They will move
toward you as soon as they can, though they will
not move into an obviously dangerous area. If the
creature cannot get to you, the spell ends for that
creature.
Creatures effected by this spell will use the Dash
action to get close to you, and once within melee
range with target you with all of their attacks. The
creatures will perform no other actions. The
creatures targeted by this spell have advantage on
all melee attacks against you.


Unknown Spell 786
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 50 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a needle)
Duration:  Instantaneous
The sky darkens and blood rains from the sky.
Creatures within a 10 foot radius 30 foot high
cylinder centered on a point you choose within
range must make a Dexterity saving throw. A creature takes 8d6 poison damage on a failed save,
and half as much on a successful one. The ground
under the cylinder becomes a sticky morass as the
earth and stone dissolve. The area covered by the
cylinder becomes difficult terrain for 10 minutes
after he spell is cast.
At Higher Levels. You can cast this spell using a
spell slot of 5th level or higher. You can increase the
radius of the cylinder by 10 feet or the damage by
1d6 for each spell level above 4th.


Unknown Spell 787
Casting Time: 1 reaction, which you take when a
creature ends its turn within 5 feet of you
Range: 5 feet
Components: V, M (a weapon)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You enter a trancelike state of mystical combat
awareness, sensing the approach of enemies and
protectively whirling your weapon around to strike
them with supernatural speed. When you cast this
spell, until the start of your next turn, when a
creature starts its turn within 5 feet of you, it takes
1d8 force damage.
Until the spell ends, whenever a creature ends its
turn within 5 feet of you, you can use your reaction
to reactivate this effect, causing the triggering
creature and any other hostile creature that starts
its turn within 5 feet of you until the start of your
next turn to take 1d8 force damage.
“I believe this spell to be a recent creation,
crafted by Ariella Kulmina, a Windsoul genasi
swordmage from Airspur, though I know
Elminster’s scholarly opinion differs. He
concludes that Ariella discovered it in the
spellbook of the moon elf Josidiah Starym, a
famed bladesinger of old Myth Drannor.
“Wherever it originated, it is now a favorite of
those who combine blade and spell in battle, in
frequent use by spellcasting warriors of both
elven and genasi ancestry, as well as among the
githyanki gish.”

Page 240
“If this is not the spell Starym was
researching with an apprentice when he
and I crossed paths in Cormanthor in the
3rd Century, then by an unlikely
coincidence Kulmina researched a nearly
identical dweomer of her own over a
millennium layter.”


Unknown Spell 788
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components:  V, S, M
Duration:  Instantaneous
A ray of rainbow colored light streaks from your
hand. Make a ranged spell attack. On a hit, the
target takes damage equal to 2d12 + your
spellcasting ability modifier, and it is stunned until
the end of its next turn. A successful Constitution
saving throw negates the stunning effect.
The type of damage dealt is rolled randomly from
the following table:
If the result indicates the beam is multihued, then
the target takes 2d12 points of damage for each of
the two damage types.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 4th level or higher, the amount of
damage of the type rolled increases by 1d12 for every two slot levels above 2nd.


Unknown Spell 789
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 150 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a small clear gem or crystal
prism worth at least 50 gp)
Duration:  Instantaneous
A multihued ray of energy shoots from your hand at
a target within range. Make a ranged spell attack.
On hit, the ray deals 1d8 acid damage, 1d8 cold
damage, 1d8 fire damage, 1d8 lightning damage, and
1d8 thunder damage to the target.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 6th level or higher, the amount of
damage of each type increases by 1d8 for every three
slot levels above 3rd.


Unknown Spell 790
Casting Time: 1 reaction (after you or an ally has
been struck by an enemy)
Range: 50 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
As an enemy strikes your ally, you gesture and your
ally is unharmed, but one of your enemies jerks as if
struck. When an enemy within range has struck one
of your allies, but before they roll for damage, you
may use your reaction to force them to make a
Wisdom saving throw. If they fail the damage is
applied to one of their allies. Determine which ally
randomly. The ally must be within 30 feet of the
target. If the target has no allies, the spell fails.


Unknown Spell 791
Casting Time:  1 minute
Range: Self

Page 241
Components:  V, S, M (a piece of string, black
dragon blood, and squid ink)
Duration:  24 hours
You may only cast this spell once per day, before
you start preparing your spells for the day. Choose
up to three levels of spells (three first level spells,
one first level spell and one second level spell, or
one third level spell) from any other class’s spell list.
For 24 hours, you treat the selected spells as if they
belonged to your class’s spell list, and you may
prepare those spells normally.
“A most convenient way to surprise your
foes, aid your friends, and conjure
lunch.”


Unknown Spell 792
Casting Time:  1 bonus action
Range: Self
Components:  V
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
Once you cast this spell, you hold its energy to
empower another spell you will cast later. Once
before the spell ends, you can either grant yourself
advantage on one spell attack roll or impose
disadvantage on one saving throw made by a target
against a spell you cast.
In addition, if the spell which you enhanced with
one of the effects described above deals damage,
you can reroll any damage die that rolls a 1. You
must use the second roll for each die, even if the
damage is lower.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 7th level or higher, when rerolling
damage dice for a spell you enhanced, you can reroll
any damage die that rolls a 1 or a 2.


Unknown Spell 793
Casting Time:  1 action Range: 30 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You emit a ray of negative energy from your
outstretched hand at a target within range. Make a
ranged spell attack against the target. If the attack
hits, the creature has disadvantage on Strength,
Dexterity, and Constitution saving throws and
ability checks for the duration of the spell.
An affected creature can attempt a Charisma
saving throw at the end of each of its turns, and on
a success, the spell ends.
“The hour approaches when Rary of Ket will face the
reckoning he so richly deserves.After that long-
awaited day, the only remnant of the traitor’s existence
will be the spells that bear his name.”


Unknown Spell 794
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a drop of sweat)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You strike a creature you can see within range with
an enervating black ray. The creature must make a
Constitution saving throw or suffer one level of
exhaustion. If the creature misses its saving throw
by 5 or more, it suffers two levels of exhaustion. On
a successful save, the creature is unaffected.


Unknown Spell 795
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 90 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Instantaneous
Make a ranged spell attack against a creature in
range. If you hit, the creature must repeat their
movement action from the last turn. For example, if

Page 242
the creature moved 15 feet forward and 15 feet to the
right during its last move action, then it will
immediately move 15 feet forward and 15 feet to the
right. The creature will not move into an area that is
dangerous or fatal. The spell will end if the creature
would be forced into those areas.


Unknown Spell 796
Casting Time:  1 reaction, which you take when a
creature within 30 feet of you hits one of your allies
with an attack roll
Range: 30 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Instantaneous
You direct a beam of fierce radiance against an
enemy and force it to feel the pain of the wounds it
inflicted on your comrade. Make a ranged spell
attack against the attacker. If the attack hits,
it inflicts 4d6 radiant damage on the
target.


Unknown Spell 797
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S, M (a thin-bladed razor)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
Your skin transforms into razor sharp scales. Your
Armor Class cannot be lower than 15, no matter
what armor you wear. In addition, any creature that
grapples you or hits you with a melee attack during
the duration must roll a Dexterity saving throw. On
a failed save, the creature takes 2d4 slashing
damage, or half as much on a successful one.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, the damage
increases by 1d4 for each slot level above 2nd.


Unknown Spell 798
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: 60 feet Components: S
Duration: Instantaneous
Choose up to six creatures you can see within range.
Those creatures must make a Wisdom saving throw.
If they succeed the spell has no effect on that
creature. If they fail, the DM must provide you with
a one-word summary of the emotional state of each
creature, such as "happy," "confused," "afraid," or
"violent." You receive no information from this spell
about creatures that are not living (such as
constructs or undead) or from creatures which are
immune to psychic damage.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the number of
creatures whose mood you can read with this spell
is increased by two for each slot level above 1st.

Page 243
“The practical value of knowing  a possible
oppoenent’s emotional state cannot be
overestimated, especially when entering into
delicate negotiations or investigating the
commission of a crime. Certain casters may not
wish to spend their energies on it, but I can attest
that early use of read moods  has oft saved me the
casting of many a meteor swarm  spell later on.”


Unknown Spell 799
Casting Time:  10 minutes
Range: Touch (1 object)
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 hour
You can concentrate on an object you are touching,
reading psychic impressions left on it by recent
events. At the end of the time you spend casting
this spell, you learn of any events within the past 24
hours that occurred within 30 feet of the object. You
see, hear, and smell those events from the object’s
point of view, as if you had been there at the time.
You also see a mental image of the last creature
that handled the object, also from the object’s
perspective, no matter how long ago the object was
last held. The only information you receive about
the creature is its appearance at that time
(including a sense of its size), whether it was alone
(although you can’t see any other creatures that
might have been there), and a one or two-word
description from the DM describing that creature’s
emotional state the last time it touched the object
(such as “Enraged”, “Extremely Agitated”, “Relaxed”,
“Satisfied”, “Utterly Emotionless”, etc.). If the
creature was not capable of emotion, or if its mental
state was too alien for you to understand, the DM
will tell you that instead.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 7th level or higher, if the object has
been handled by multiple creatures within the last
week, you get the same information about each
creature who handled it during that time the same way you would normally receive about the last
creature who handled it.


Unknown Spell 800
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 150 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a golden hoop no less than 1
inch across)
Duration:  1 round
With a crack of lightning and thunder, a 20-foot
radius spherical rip in space and time appears,
centered on a point you choose within range. All
loose materials weighing under 100 pounds within
the sphere are sucked into the center of the
maelstrom and transported to a random plane of
existence. Similarly, any creatures caught within the
sphere must make a Wisdom saving throw or be
pulled into the maelstrom and transported. All
objects and creatures sucked into the maelstrom are
transported to the same plane of existence.
The maelstrom has a secondary windstorm effect
that extends 40 feet from the center of the sphere.
All unattended objects weighing 50 pounds or less
in the extended area are pulled 20 feet closer toward
the maelstrom’s center, and then sucked into the
rift and transported. A creature within the extended
area must make a Dexterity saving throw. On a
failure, it is pulled 20 feet closer to the center  of the
sphere. Any creature pulled into the sphere must
make the Wisdom saving throw, being transported
to another plane on a failure.
Each time this spell is cast, roll on the following
table to determine the destination for any objects or
creatures transported to another plane.

Page 244


Unknown Spell 801
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
The touch of your hand drains a target’s life energy,
allowing you to sacrifice animals or sometimes
other creatures to make their vitality your own.
Make a melee spell attack against a conscious living
creature within range. You have advantage if your
target is a beast. On a hit, the target takes 1d6
necrotic damage, and you gain temporary hit points
equal to half the damage dealt (rounded up). The
spell’s damage increases by 1d6 when you reach 5th
level (2d6), 11th level (3d6), and 17th level (4d6).
“Sometimes the simplest magic is also the
darkest.”


Unknown Spell 802
Casting Time:  1 bonus action
Range: 30 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a sacred text of your faith)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
By reciting a sacred passage or declaration from
holy teachings, you invoke ancient divine blessings
upon your allies. Choose up to four creatures within
range, one of which may be yourself. Whenever a
target makes an attack roll or a saving throw before
the spell ends, the target can roll a d4 and add the
number rolled to the attack roll or saving throw.
If the target worships the same patron deity as
you, it may choose to roll a d6 for the benefit of this
spell instead of a d4.
Whether or not you choose yourself as a target of
this spell, you gain a +2 bonus to your Armor Class
for the duration.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 5th level or higher, you can target one
additional creature for each slot level above 4th.


Unknown Spell 803
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 10 minutes
You create a magical connection between yourself
and an ally, such that any spells that would harm
the ally are redirected to you. Touch a willing
creature when you cast this spell. Whenever you are
within 15 feet of that creature, and it is forced to
make a saving throw against a spell, or it is targeted
by a spell attack, the spell targets you instead. If the
spell forces a saving throw, you make your own
saving throw against it and undergo its effects for a
success or failure. If the spell is an attack, the attack
roll is made against you.
This spell ends early if the chosen creature is ever
more than a mile away from you.

Page 245


Unknown Spell 804
Casting Time: 1 reaction, taken when you would
take acid, cold, fire, lightning, or thunder damage
Range: Self
Components: S
Duration: Instantaneous
The spell partially redirects the elemental energy
affecting you, turning some of it against its source.
Make a melee or ranged spell attack (your choice),
targeting the source of the triggering damage. On a
hit, the target takes force damage equal to half the
damage it just dealt. Whether you hit or miss, you
gain resistance to the triggering damage type
(including against the triggering damage) until the
start of your next turn.
“The lower-level spell absorb elements  is highly
effective, yet against enemies of great power
(especially dragons), reflect elements  can be even
better.”


Unknown Spell 805
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S, M (a specially prepared
breakable object worth at least 1,500 gp)
Duration:  Instantaneous
You imbue a specially crafted object with powerful
magic. A creature can speak the command word
while breaking the object and be instantly
teleported to a location you designated when the
spell was cast. The destination must be on the same
plane of existence as the object when broken, or the
spell fails.


Unknown Spell 806
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 30 feet Components:  V, S
Duration:  Instantaneous
This spell functions like find steed , except you
summon three more mounts that come with bit and
bridles, riding saddles, saddle blankets, ribbons and
adornments, and a regal banner. You select the
color of the horses and livery, which can include
heraldry or a personal symbol.


Unknown Spell 807
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
For the duration of this spell, at the beginning of
each of your turns, if you made one or more melee
attacks that inflicted at least 10 points of damage
since the start of your previous turn, you gain 1
temporary hit point for every 5 points of damage
you inflicted with your most damaging attack. The
maximum number of temporary hit points you can
gain in this way in one turn is equal to your
spellcasting ability modifier.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a 2nd-level or higher spell slot, you increase the
duration of the spell to 10 minutes. If you use a 3rd-
level or higher spell slot, the duration increases to 1
hour. In addition, the maximum number of
temporary hit points you can gain from this spell in
one turn is equal to your spellcasting ability
modifier or the level of the slot you used to cast this
spell, whichever is higher.
“Few magical strategies are more
effective than harming one’s enemies and
energizing one’s self at the same time.”


Unknown Spell 808
Casting Time:  1 bonus action
Range: 30 feet

Page 246
Components:  V, S
Duration:  1 round
An image forms in your mind, revealing what you
would see if you were standing some distance away.
Choose one point within range that you can see.
Until the end of your next turn, you perceive
visually from that point instead of where you
actually are. You determine line of sight from that
point as well.


Unknown Spell 809
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 10 minutes
An undead you touch is warded against the petty
whims of the gods. The warded undead ignores the
next time an enemy attempts to turn it.


Unknown Spell 810
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
Ranged attacks with nonmagical missiles have
disadvantage to hit you for the duration. If a missile
misses you due to this disadvantage, then the
missile is turned back upon your attacker. If that
happens, use your reaction to make a ranged spell
attack against the attacker. On a hit, the target
takes the normal missile damage.
In addition, you have resistance to damage from
nonmagical missiles for the duration


Unknown Spell 811
Casting Time: 1 reaction (which you take at the
end of any turn during which a creature within
range teleported or left the plane you are in for
another)
Range: 50 feet Components:  V, S
Duration:  Instantaneous
The triggering creature must make a Wisdom
saving throw. If it fails, the teleportation or planar
travel is reversed, and the target reappears in the
space it occupied before it traveled in this way.


Unknown Spell 812
Casting Time:  1 action
Components:  V, S, M (your holy symbol)
Range: Self
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You grow enormous as you are filled with holy
power. For the duration, your size increases by one
category (from Medium to Large, for example) and
you have advantage on Strength and Constitution
checks and saving throws. In addition, your skin
hardens, giving you a +4 bonus to AC, and you have
resistance to necrotic damage.
Any equipment you carry or wear also grows.
Your melee weapons increase their reach by 5 feet,
and attacks you make with them inflict an
additional +2 damage. Your ranged weapons also
inflict an additional +2 damage, but their range is
unchanged.
After casting this spell, if you cast it again before
you finish a short or long rest, you must make a
Constitution saving throw at disadvantage, against a
DC equal to your own spellcasting DC plus the
number of times you have cast this spell since the
last time you finished a short or long rest. If you fail,
you fall unconscious for 1 minute, and the spell fails.


Unknown Spell 813
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components:  V, S, M (two black gloves worth at
least 20 gp)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You point at one creature of Large size or smaller
that you can see within range. The creature must

Page 247
make a Constitution saving throw or take 2d10
slashing damage, as it begins to rip apart. On a
successful save, the target takes half the damage.
On each of your turns for the duration, you can use
a bonus action to force the creature to make the
save and suffer the damage again.
If a creature is reduced to 0 hit points by this
spell, it dies as it is ripped in half.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 6th level or higher, the damage
increases by 1d10 for every two slot levels above 5th.


Unknown Spell 814
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Instantaneous
While casting this spell you touch an
immature plant. The plant
transforms into a mature
member of its species. If the
plant is a fruit bearing variety,
then it is laden with ripe fruit.
You can pick 1d4+1 pieces of fruit.
The fruit remains ripe and
nourishing for 24 hours, then
rots. When a creature
eats one or pieces
of this fruit that
are still ripe
during a short rest, if
it regains hit points by
spending Hit Dice at
the end of that rest, it
regains extra hit points
equal to your
spellcasting ability
modifier. If the creature
has also received any
magical healing during
that rest, the number of
extra hit points it regains
from this spell is doubled.


Unknown Spell 815
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 5 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  1 round
As part of the action of casting this spell, you must
make a melee weapon attack or unarmed strike
against a target within range, otherwise the spell
fails. On a hit, your attack deals an extra 1d6 radiant
damage and the target must make a Wisdom saving
throw. On a failure, the target cannot make any
attack rolls against you until after the end of its next
turn.
At Higher Levels. You can cast this spell using a
2nd level or higher spell slot,increasing the radiant
damage by 1d6 for every spell level
above 1st.


Unknown Spell 816
Casting Time: 1 bonus
action
Range: Self
Components: V, M (an iron
gauntlet)
Duration: 1 round
You cloak yourself in an
aura of might that grants
you strength and speeds
your allies' attacks.
Until the end of your
next turn, whenever
you make an attack
roll, you can roll 1d8
and add the number
rolled to your attack
roll. If the attack hits,
you add same
number to the
damage inflicted. For

Page 248
the same duration, you gain an additional action on
each of your turns. The action can be used to take
any one of the following actions: Attack (one
weapon attack only), Dash, Disengage, Hide, or Use
an Object. Any creature of your choice that starts its
next turn within 10 feet of you also gains the same
additional action on its turn.


Unknown Spell 817
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self
Components:  V, S, M (two drops of unholy water,
and one of the caster’s hairs)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You conjure a whip-like flexible line of force that
emanates from your hand and crackles with purple-
hued sparks. You are considered proficient with the
weapon, wielding it like a normal melee weapon,
and you may substitute your spellcasting ability
modifier for your Strength modifier when making
attack and damage rolls with it. It has a reach of 10
feet.
Any living creature struck by the weapon suffers
excruciating pain and takes an amount of necrotic
damage equal to 4d4 + your spellcasting ability
modifier. A creature struck by the whip must make
a Constitution saving throw. On a failure, it suffers
disadvantage on the next attack roll, ability check,
or saving throw it makes before the end of its next
turn. After dealing damage, the caster regains a
number of hit points equal to half the necrotic
damage dealt.
An undead creature struck by the weapon takes
damage normally, but does not suffer any further
effects. In addition, rather than being healed, when
you damage an undead creature with this spell, you
take damage equal to half the necrotic damage
inflicted.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 6th level or higher, the amount of
necrotic damage increases by 1d4 for every two slot
levels above 4th.


Unknown Spell 818
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a ranged weapon)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
As you strike, you call out an ancient prophecy that
seems to have predicted your opponent's defeat
long ago. As part of the action of casting this spell,
make a ranged weapon attack against a creature
within range. You can use your spellcasting ability
instead of Dexterity for the attack and damage roll
for this attack. If the attack hits, it inflicts an
additional 2d12 psychic damage, and all attack rolls
against the target are made with advantage for the
spell’s duration.
At the end of each of the target’s turns before the
spell ends, the target must make a Wisdom saving
throw. On a failure, it takes 6d12 psychic damage
and is frightened of you until the end of its next
turn. On a successful save, the spell ends.
This spell immediately ends if you cast it again
before the end of its duration.
“Bards are often of little use, trifling fools ruled by
thirst for fame and their own basest impulses. Yet this
is not always the case.
“The eldritch threat posed by certain bards of great
power should not be underestimated—especially when
such a bard possesses the gift of prescience.”


Unknown Spell 819
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S
Duration: 1 hour

Page 249
Your touch grants the target advantage on
Constitution saving throws to avoid exhaustion
until this spell ends.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the duration
increases by 1 hour or every slot level above 1st.


Unknown Spell 820
Casting Time:  1 hour
Range: Self
Components:  V, S, M (a hilt worth at least 500 gp
and a pound of sand)
Duration:  Instantaneous
You turn a pile of sand into a scimitar that burns
with the heat of the desert sun. The scimitar inflicts
1d6 slashing damage plus 1d6 fire damage on a
successful hit. You may use your spellcasting ability
modifier for to hit and damage rolls with the
scimitar. If you roll a 1 to hit, the scimitar shatters
into a thousand pieces and you must forge a new
one.
If you roll a natural 20 to hit, you may choose to
shatter the scimitar. The scimitar is destroyed but
the shards are buried into your target. Your target
must make a Constitution saving throw. If they
succeed, they rip the shards from their body. If they
fail, they take 1d6 slashing damage at the beginning
of your turn. The victim can repeat the Constitution
saving throw at the end of their turn, ending the
damage on a successful save. The shards will
continue to burrow into your victim until it dies or
successfully saves.


Unknown Spell 821
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 5 feet
Components:  V
Duration:  Instantaneous
Your body briefly transforms, shattering into a
horde of insects to attack nearby creatures before
instantly reforming. Each creature within range, other than you, must succeed on a Dexterity saving
throw, taking 2d10 piercing damage on a failure, or
half as much on a success. If at least one creature
fails its saving throw, you gain resistance to
nonmagical bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing
damage until the end of your next turn.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the piercing
damage increases by a 1d10 for each slot level above
first.


Unknown Spell 822
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 120 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a small glass sphere and a
pinch of iron oxide)
Duration:  Instantaneous
A small electrically charged sphere appears in the
air in front of you and then streaks out to a location
you can see within range. When the sphere reaches
the location, it bursts with electricity in a 20-foot
radius. Each creature within the area must make a
Dexterity saving throw or take 5d10 lightning
damage, or half as much on a successful save.
Creatures wearing metal armor have disadvantage
on the save.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 4th level or higher, the damage
increases by 1d10 for every slot level above 3rd.


Unknown Spell 823
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Until dispelled
Choose one creature you choose within range. Until
the spell ends, whenever the creature speaks of you,
even indirectly, it must make a Wisdom saving
throw if it would say anything about you that would
be considered critical, incriminating, or negative in
any way. On a failure, its words come out as

Page 250
nonsensical stories or children’s nursery rhymes
from which no relevant meaning can be discerned.
If the creature succeeds on this Wisdom saving
throw, the spell ends.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 4th or 5th level, the spell does not end
until the creature has succeeded on the Wisdom
saving throw twice. If the spell slot is 6th level or
higher, the spell does not end until the creature has
succeeded on the Wisdom saving throw three times.


Unknown Spell 824
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 120 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Instantaneous
A blast of light shoots from your palm. Make a
ranged spell attack against a target within range. If
you hit, the target takes 4d10 radiant damage. If the
target is undead, it takes maximum damage, and
must make a Wisdom saving throw. On a failed
save, the target is stunned until the end of its next
turn.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 4th level or higher, the radiant
damage increases by 1d10 (or max damage against
undead) for every slot level above 3rd.


Unknown Spell 825
Casting Time:  1 minute
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S, M (powdered herring scales,
and essence of will o’ wisp)
Duration:  Instantaneous
You transform the contents of a page to appear
totally different. A map could be made to look like a
poem, a business ledger, or even a blank page. A
comprehend languages  spell doesn’t reveal the true
nature of the page. You can use a command word to
reveal the page’s true contents or speak it twice in
succession to end the spell. The page will radiate a dim aura of transmutation
magic. If dispel magic  is cast on the page, the spell
ends if this spell was cast using a spell slot of 2nd or
3rd level, and the page’s true contents are revealed;
however, if this spell was cast using a spell slot of
4th level or higher and the attempt to dispel its
magic fails, the page is destroyed, and its contents
are unrecoverable.
A true seeing  spell will reveal the true nature of
the page, but it does not give its caster knowledge
of any languages required to decipher the text.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot higher than 2nd level, you can affect one
additional page, and the difficulty of dispelling its
magic increases accordingly.


Unknown Spell 826
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components:  V, M (a polished glass lens)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 10 minutes
Once per minute for the duration, you can search a
50-foot section of wall while peering through a
specially crafted lens; you automatically detect the
presence of secret doors along the section of wall
you search as they are surrounded by a faint glow
that you can only see while peering through the
lens.


Unknown Spell 827
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 120 feet
Components:  V, S M (a beholder eyestalk)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 10 minutes
Choose one target within range. That target must
make a Wisdom saving throw. If they fail, you can
see through their eyes. The target is unaware that
you can see through their eyes. You may use a
bonus action to switch between your target’s eyes
and your own. You do not gain access to any of the
other senses your target possesses, but you can see

Page 251
through their eyes for the duration of the spell as
long as your target stays on the same plane and
does not enter an anti-magic field. If the target
successfully saves, the spell has no effect.


Unknown Spell 828
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 5 feet
Components:  V, M (a weapon)
Duration:  Instantaneous
Your attack leaves a glowing mote of arcane power
in your enemy’s wound. As part of the action used
to cast this spell, you must make a melee attack
with a weapon against one creature within the
spell's range, otherwise the spell fails. On a hit, the
target suffers the attack's normal effects and you
push it 15 feet away from you, kicking your foe free
of your blade before it erupts in a blossom of hellish
flames. The target you hit and each creature within
10 feet of it must succeed on a Dexterity saving
throw or take 4d6 fire damage.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 5th level or higher, the fire damage
increases by 1d6 for each slot level above 1st.


Unknown Spell 829
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: Self
Components: V, S
Duration: 1 minute
The next time you use a Channel Divinity option
that turns undead or other creatures before this
spell ends, you add 1d4+1 to the DC of saving throws
against the turning effect, and the spell ends..


Unknown Spell 830
Casting Time: 1 reaction, which you take when you
miss with a ranged weapon attack roll
Range: Self
Components: V Duration: Instantaneous
Your projectile changes direction in mid-air to
strike your foe. You repeat the triggering ranged
weapon attack roll against the same target. You
must use the new roll.


Unknown Spell 831
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
With a whispered word and a piercing gaze, you
momentarily project an impulse into your enemy's
mind, channeling its hostility towards you into a
sudden reflexive attack against another of your foes.
Choose one humanoid creature you can see within
range that can also see and hear you. The target
must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or become
charmed by you until the start of its next turn. A
creature has advantage on this saving throw if it is
not currently in combat, or if it has witnessed
another creature fail its saving throw against your
casting of this spell within the past minute.
When you charm a target with this spell, any
other creatures who can see or hear you know you
have magically influenced the target, and you can
immediately choose one of two effects:
 You can force the charmed target to walk up
to 15 feet, and you choose its movement.
It will not move into difficult terrain
or through the spaces of other

Page 252
creatures, and its movement only provokes
opportunity attacks from other creatures hostile
to you. After the creature moves, the spell ends.
 You can make a melee spell attack against
another creature within 5 feet of the charmed
target. The charmed target delivers this melee
spell attack, as if it had cast the spell. On a hit,
the attack inflicts 1d6 psychic damage. Whether
the attack hits or misses, the spell ends.
When the spell ends, the creature realizes that
you used magic to control it and becomes hostile
toward you. It likely seeks to attack you or your
allies, but will not do so if doing so would be
disadvantageous for it or its friends. The creature
might also seek retribution in other ways (at the
DM’s discretion), depending on the situation.
The spell's damage increases by 1d6 when you
reach 5th level (2d6), 11th level (3d6), and 17th level
(4d6).
“Arguably the most powerful cantrip in battle. Not
only excellent for quickly establishing tactical controil,
but also invaluable for the fear and uncertainty it sows
in the enemy’s ranks.”
“On this point, I find myself in agreement
with the pitiful Mordenkainen. A rare
occasion, that.
“Teaching this cantrip to even the most
ignorant of apprentices makes them much
more useful when they fight in the
company of your other minions.”


Unknown Spell 832
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: Self
Components: V
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour You channel your hunger for new experiences into a
special state of mental focus. For the duration,
whenever you attack with a weapon you have not
attacked with since the last time you rolled
initiative, you roll 1d6 and add the result to the
attack roll. You gain the same bonus when you cast
a spell requiring an attack roll that you have not
cast since the last time you rolled initiative.
“This spell was first researched in the outer-
planar city of Sigil, by members of a faction
known as the Society of Sensation. Not all
casters are as eager for new experiences as the
creators of this spell, especially after a thousand
years or more of life, but the magic is potent
enough that it always achieves its practical effect,
regardless of the user’s state of mind.”


Unknown Spell 833
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: Touch
Components: S
Duration: 1 hour
In a moment of quiet reflection, you touch a
creature and can take its pain or anguish onto
yourself, temporarily suppressing one condition
afflicting it. The condition can be blinded,
deafened, paralyzed, or poisoned. When you
suppress the condition, the creature is no longer
afflicted with it, but you immediately suffer the
same condition yourself for duration, even if you
would normally be immune to it. At the end of your
next turn, you can make a Constitution saving
throw against your own spellcasting DC. If you
succeed, the condition ends early for you, but it
remains suppressed for the original creature until
the spell ends. If you fail, you can make the saving
throw again at the end of each of your turns until
you end the condition early or the spell ends.
When this spell ends, any suppressed effect
resumes for the creature that originally suffered it,
provided that its duration has not expired in the

Page 253
meantime.


Unknown Spell 834
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a black silk cloth)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
Choose a creature that you can see within range as
your target. The creature must make a Wisdom
saving throw. On a failed save, the creature is
blinded, deafened, and it can’t benefit from
blindsight or any other sense for the duration.
The creature can attempt a new saving throw at
the end of each of its turns, and on a success, the
spell ends.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 6th level or higher, you can affect one
more creature within range for every two slot levels
above 4th.


Unknown Spell 835
Casting Time:  1 bonus action
Range: 90 feet
Components:  V
Duration:  Concentration, up to 8 hours
You choose a creature you can see within range and
mark it as your doomed prey with this more
powerful version of the hunter’s mark  spell. Until
the spell ends, you have advantage on any Wisdom
check you make to find the target or discern any
other information about it, and you deal an extra
1d10 damage to the target whenever you hit it with a
weapon attack.
Whenever the target takes the extra damage from
this spell, until the end of its next turn it has
disadvantage while it is within 5 feet of you on any
attack roll that doesn't target you. A creature does
not suffer disadvantage on attack rolls from this
spell while it is marked by another creature.
If the target drops to 0 hit points before this spell
ends, you can use a bonus action on a subsequent turn of yours to mark a new creature.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 5th level or higher, you can maintain
your concentr ⁠ation on the spell for up to 24 hours.


Unknown Spell 836
Casting Time:  1 bonus action
Range: Self
Components:  S, M (a polished obsidian mirror
worth 200 gp, which the spell consumes)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
Your body and mind are invested with the hardness
of stone and the inexorable power of flowing
magma. Until the spell ends, you gain resistance to
fire damage and to nonmagical bludgeoning,
piercing, and slashing damage, and you have
advantage on Wisdom and Intelligence saving
throws.


Unknown Spell 837
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S, M (a serpent scale)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 hour
You touch a quiver containing arrows or bolts.
When a target is hit by a ranged weapon attack
using a piece of ammunition drawn from the quiver,
the target takes an extra 2d6 poison damage. Even if
the attack misses, the target takes 1d6 poison
damage. The spell’s magic ends on the piece of
ammunition when it hits or misses, and the spell
ends when ten pieces of ammunition have been
drawn from the quiver.
After each attack, whether it hits or misses, the
used piece of ammunition falls into an unoccupied
space closest to the target, where it transforms into
a giant poisonous snake  under the control of the
creature who attacked with the ammunition.
Giant poisonous snakes  created by this spell
are friendly to you and your companions. They act
on the initiative of the creature who attacked with

Page 254
the ammunition, immediately after that creature’s
turn ends, but act on their own. The snakes obey
any verbal commands issued by the creature
controlling them (no action required by you). If that
creature doesn't issue any commands, the snakes
continue to attack the target of the ranged attack
(even if the target has dropped to 0 hit points), but
otherwise take no actions beyond defending
themselves.
Each snake changes back into a piece of
ammunition when it drops to 0 hit points or when
the spell ends.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 5th level or higher, the number of
pieces of ammunition you can affect increases by
two for each slot level above 4th.
“Serpent arrows! What can I say? There
are some people in this world with truly
twisted imaginations.”


Unknown Spell 838
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 120 feet
Components:  V, S, M (s snake scale)
Duration:  Instantaneous
Writhing bolts of energy leap from your hand, and
strike a target you can see within range. The target
must make a Constitution saving throw. On failure,
the target takes 3d4 poison damage, and is poisoned
until the end of its next turn. On a successful save,
it only takes half damage and isn’t poisoned.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, you deal an extra
1d4 poison damage, and the poisoned condition
lasts one round longer for each slot level above 1st.


Unknown Spell 839
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self Components:  V, S, M (the same material
components, if any, as the spell you choose)
Duration:  Instantaneous
Choose a spell of 4th level or lower. The next time
you are targetted by, or included in the area of
effect, of that spell it will have no effect on you.
Once the named spell has been negated, or when
you complete your next long rest, the spell ends .
“This spell is often associated with the cleric Serten, a
close friend of Tenser who died in battle some years ago.
In fact, a legendary archmage, also called Serten,
created the spell long before the famed cleric was born.
Adding to the confusion was the fact that the cleric
Serten possessed a magic ring which granted him the
benefits of this spell.
“Tenser spent years blaming me for the cleric’s death.
Whether he ever forgave me or saw sense, I don’t
know, but I bear no responsibility for the man’s fate.
The truth is, the cleric Serten was a fool—a brave,
kindly, helpful fool, but a fool nonetheless—and he was
undone by his own reckless yearning for adventure.”


Unknown Spell 840
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 90 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a small stick crossbar to
which many lengths of knotted thread are attached)
Duration: Up to 1 hour
You create a number of invisible, mindless,
shapeless forces that perform simple tasks at your
command. Roll 3d4 to determine how many
servants you create. Each servant obeys any verbal
commands that you issue (no action required by
you). However, if you don't issue any commands, a

Page 255
servant does nothing as it awaits your next
command.
Once you give a command, each servant performs
its task to the best of its ability until its task is
completed. It then waits for your next command.
Your servants can run and fetch things, open
unstuck doors, and hold chairs as well as clean and
mend. A servant can also be used for common
laborious tasks, if you carefully direct it. The
servants are no better or faster at tasks than a basic
or unskilled commoner would be.
The servants can serve food or wine at a banquet,
help dig earthworks, row a ship, act as porters, fold
clothes, or assist in a farmer’s fields. Each servant
can perform only one activity at a time, but it
repeats the same activity continuously if told to do
so. This allows you to command one servant to
perform a repetitive task and then turn your
attention elsewhere if you remain within range.
Servants can open only normal doors, drawers, lids,
and so forth. They have an effective Strength score
of 2 (so they can carry 30 pounds, and push, drag, or
lift 60 pounds). They can trigger traps and such, but
they can exert only 60 pounds of force, and that is
not enough to activate certain pressure plates and
other devices. A servant’s speed is 15 feet.
The servants cannot attack in any way, and are
never allowed to make an attack roll. The servants
have an Armor Class of 10 and 6 hit points. The
servants cannot be killed, but they dissipate after
taking 6 points of damage. (They do not make
saving throws). If you attempt to send a servant
beyond the spell’s range (measured from your
current position), that servant ceases to exist.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 6th level or higher, you create 1d4
additional servants for every slot level above 5th.
When you cast it using a spell slot of 7th level or
higher, the spell’s duration increases to 8 hours.
“On the eve of a naval battle, a wu-jen conjurer of
Koryo once inflicted great fear and chaos upon a
Kozakuran port with the servant army  spell.
Making herself unseen with other tricks, she
would stand on the docks, magically distract sailors on watch, have the invisible servants she’d
conjured board a ship and sail it fifty feet or so
from shore, then move to another berth and
repeat the same trick.
“Mages of Kara-Tur invented this spell, and
their region’s history records many creative uses
of it. The subtlety I often find so lacking in the
spellcasters of Faerûn seems to be much less rare
in the nations of that eastern continent.”


Unknown Spell 841
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 120 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
A cloud of gray shadowy goo leaps from your hand
and hits a creature of your choice that you can see
within range, ripping at the target’s eyes, flowing
into its mouth, and menacing it any way it can. The
bolt of goo deals 2d6 necrotic damage to its target.
In addition, the target must make a Constitution
saving throw. On a failure, the target has
disadvantage on ability checks, attack rolls, and
saving throws for the duration.
The target can attempt a new Constitution saving
throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the
spell on a success.
“A battlemage of the Shoon Imperium
cast this at me once . ’Twas most
unpleasant. The mage in question is no
longer with us —of course, the Shoon
Empire isn't either.”


Unknown Spell 842
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S, M (part of a funeral shroud)
Duration:  Up to 1 hour

Page 256
You wrap one person you touch in the essence of
the Shadowfell. The creature becomes harder to see
and its body becomes much more malleable. Until
the spell ends, he creature gains advantage on all
Dexterity (Stealth) checks. Whenever it makes such
a check, it is considered proficient in the Stealth
skill. A creature that is already proficient in the
Stealth skill adds double its normal proficiency
bonus to the check, instead of its normal
proficiency bonus. For the duration, the subject of
this spell can also squeeze through any gap larger
than 1-inch wide.


Unknown Spell 843
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 120 feet
Components:  V, S, M (an iron rod and a bit of bat
fur)
Duration:  Instantaneous
You cast an illusionary version of one of the
following spells: fireball, cone of cold, or lightning
bolt. Treat this as if the spellcaster had cast one of
those spells, with the following
exceptions:  Targets make a Charisma saving throw instead
of the normal saving throw for the imitated
spell.
 Instead of the normal damage for the imitated
spell, creatures who fail the Charisma saving
throw take 4d6 necrotic damage and 4d6
psychic damage on a failed save, or half as much
of each type of damage on a successful one.
 A creature reduced to 0 hit points by this spell is
not killed, but is stable and unconscious at 0 hit
points. A creature that falls unconscious due to
damage from this spell can make a Wisdom
saving throw at the end of each of its turns. On
a success, it regains hit points equal to the
psychic damage this spell inflicted.
 A a creature that takes psychic damage from
this spell heals a number of hit points equal to
the psychic damage 1 minute after the damage
was taken, unless it already recovered those hit
points by making a successful Wisdom saving
throw against this spell, as described above.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 6th-level or higher, you deal an extra
1d6 psychic damage for every two spell levels above
4th. In addition, when you cast this spell
using a spell slot of 7th-level or higher, you
deal an extra 1d6 necrotic damage for every
two spell levels above 5th.


Unknown Spell 844
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 60 feet
Comonents:  S
Duration:  Instantaneous
When you cast this spell, a wickedly
bladed dart or throwing star made of
black metal appears in your
hand, and you hurl it instantly.
Make a ranged spell attack
against the target. You have
advantage on this attack if you are
lightly or heavily obscured from

Page 257
your target. The target is considered to have half
cover against this attack if it is standing in direct
sunlight (half cover grants +2 AC).
On a hit, the target takes 1d10 piercing damage.
Hit or miss, the projectile breaks and explodes in a
shower of shrapnel. The target and each creature
within 5 feet of it must succeed on a Constitution
saving throw or take one level of exhaustion and 1d8
necrotic damage. When a creature that already has
one or more levels of exhaustion gains a new level
of exhaustion from this spell, it becomes immune to
gaining further levels of exhaustion from this spell
for 24 hours.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a 2nd level or higher spell slot, the necrotic damage
increases by ld8 for each slot level above 2nd.


Unknown Spell 845
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 90 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You select a shadowy area the size of a 40-foot cube
within range. You cause four shadows  (as described
in the Monster Manual) to manifest in unoccupied
spaces within the area. On each of your turns for
the duration, you can use a bonus action to
command the shadows to move up to their full
speed and attack creatures of your choice within
their reach.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell with
a 6th level spell slot, you summon 8 shadows. When
you cast this spell with an 8th level spell sot, you
summon 12 shadows.
“Summon darkness, then fill it with
monsters. Enemies bold enough to
confront you should expect a nightmare,
and you should live up to everything
your enemies fear you to be.”


Unknown Spell 846
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (a lens of black glass)
Duration: 1 round
An inner light flares in your eyes, allowing you to
briefly see hidden things and gaze into even the
deepest darkness. Until the end of your next turn,
you can see normally in darkness, both magical and
non-magical, to a distance of 60 feet. For the same
duration, you see invisible creatures and objects as
if they were visible, and you can see into the
Ethereal Plane. Ethereal creatures and objects
appear ghostly and translucent.


Unknown Spell 847
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S
Duration:  4 hours
You and a creature you touch are transported to the
border of the Shadowfell, where you can travel at a
rate of 7 miles per hour and re-enter the Material
plane at a location you know. Alternatively, you can
choose to enter the Demiplane of Shadow and then
travel to where it borders another plane of
existence, and then exit at that location.
Instead of transporting a willing creature, you can
make a melee spell attack as part of the same action
used to cast this spell to touch an unwilling creature
within your reach. On a hit, the creature is
transported to the Demiplane of Shadow while you
are transported to a space within 5 feet of it or to
the border the material plane (your choice). If the
creature doesn’t find an exit to another plane before
the spell ends, it is transported to a random plane
that borders the Demiplane of Shadow.

Page 258


Unknown Spell 848
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 8 hours
You choose a creature you can see within range and
place an invisible mark of shadow upon it. Until the
spell ends, the target has disadvantage on Wisdom
checks to find, notice, or discern information about
you, and you have advantage on Wisdom checks to
find, follow, or discern information about the
target. Once before the spell ends, you can give
yourself advantage on one weapon attack roll
against the spell's current target during your turn.
That attack deals an extra 1d12 psychic damage on a
hit and scores a critical hit on a roll of 19 or 20.
If the target drops to 0 hit points before this spell
ends, you can use a bonus action on a subsequent
turn of yours to mark a new creature.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, you can maintain
your concentration on the spell for up to 24 hours,
and you add your proficiency bonus to the psychic
damage inflicted.
“The shadowing mark  spell is an excellent means of
tracking a creature unnoticed, whether or not you ever
use it to attack.
“Unfortunately, it is sometimes necessary to spy on
friends as well as foes.”


Unknown Spell 849
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 120 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a crystal or piece of glass)
Duration:  Instantaneous You fill a 20-foot radius sphere with ghostly shards
of force and the sound of breaking glass. Anyone in
the sphere must make a Dexterity saving throw. On
a failed save, a creature takes 6d8 force damage, or
half as much on a successful one. At the start of the
creature’s next turn, the shards continue to dig
deeper, dealing half the damage they dealt the
previous round. The shards disappear after the
second round.


Unknown Spell 850
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S
Duration: Up to 1 minute
You touch a shield and imbue it with protective
magic. The shield grants its bearer a +2 bonus to
Armor Class and Dexterity saving throws for the
spell’s duration, in addition to the normal AC bonus
for using a shield.


Unknown Spell 851
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch (10-feet)
Components:  V, S, M (a shield)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You touch a shield, and it hovers and moves to
protect a target you choose within range. For the
duration, shield hovers within the chosen creature’s
space and provides it with the same bonus to Armor
Class it would grant if the creature were using it
proficienctly. Once the shield’s recipient has been
chosen, it cannot be changed for the duration of the
spell.
If the creature you choose to protect with this
spell moves more than 60 feet away from you, the
spell ends early. When the spell ends, the floating
shield falls gently to the ground at the chosen crea
At Higher Levels:  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 3rd or 4th Level, you can maintain
your Concentration on the spell for up to 10

Page 259
minutes. When you use a spell slot of 5th Level or
higher, you can maintain your Concentration on the
spell for up to 1 hour.
“Frequently more efficient than hiring a bodyguard,
and for the brief duration of the shieldbearer, almost
always more reliable.”


Unknown Spell 852
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 150 feet
Components:  V S M (A cube of wax covered in
arcane runes)
Duration:  Instantaneous
You direct a minute cube of force into the thick of
battle, where it suddenly expands, slamming your
enemy and protecting your allies. Make a ranged
spell attack against one creature within range. If the
attack hits, the target takes 2d6 force damage and
its speed is reduced by half until the end of its next
turn. Until its speed is longer reduced in this way,
whenever the target takes makes an attack against a
creature more than 5 feet away from it, it must roll a
d4 and subtract the number rolled from the attack
roll.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the damage
increases by 1d6 for each slot level above 1st.


Unknown Spell 853
Casting Time:  1 minute
Range: 60 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 hour
All magical glyphs and symbols within range faintly
glow and can be safely read and identified if you are
familiar with them. In addition, you can select one
of the glyphs or symbols and move it safely to another suitable surface within range without
triggering its effects.
This spell prevents the spellcaster from triggering
glyphs and symbols within range while maintaining
concentration but doesn’t extend this protection to
other creatures that may trigger them.


Unknown Spell 854
Casting Time:  10 minutes
Range: 150 feet
Components:  V, S, M
Duration:  8 hours
This spell hides a path or road that you choose,
while also creating an illusory path that starts at a
point you choose within range. The illusory path
continues in a direction you choose for up to a
number of miles equal to 2 × your spellcasting
ability modifier. This illusory path avoids obstacles,
and does not provide bridges, stairs, ladders, ramps,
or other methods to travel through impassable
terrain. The path will not cross cliffs or rivers more
than four feet deep.
A creature following the original path must make
a Wisdom saving throw when it comes to the start
of the illusory path. On a failed save, the creature
follows the illusory path as if it were the real one. If
the path moves through difficult terrain, the
creature believes the path slopes and twists to
justify its reduction in speed.
On a successful save, the creature sees both
paths, but the illusory path appears shadowy.
“The War Wizard Vangerdahast of Cormyr won
many a victory for the armies of King Azoun IV
with the careful use of shifting paths .”


Unknown Spell 855
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self
Components:  S
Duration:  Instantaneous

Page 260
Too quickly for mortal eyes to perceive, you move
no further than the reach of your shadow. You can
move up to 5 feet, and this movement does not
provoke attacks of opportunity.
“This spell is popular among the shades, a ‘race’ of
mortal beings who have infused themselves with the
substance of the Shadowfell. I believe the shades were
denizens of the Netherese city of Thultanhar.
“Shades created this spell, and often find ways to cast
it more quickly than other spellcasters, swiftly
disengaging from foes who get too close.”


Unknown Spell 856
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 150 feet
Components: V S M (A small sphere of carved
crystal)
Duration: Instantaneous
When you cast this spell—created as an alternative
to fireball for battles on crowded streets—you
create a burst of concussive force that disorients
victims without causing permanent harm. Each
creature in a 20-foot radius sphere centered on a
point you choose within range must make a
Constitution saving throw. A target takes 7d6 force
damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on
a successful one.
If this damage reduces a creature to 0 hit
points, you can choose to knock the
creature unconscious instead of killing
it. This choice must be made as
damage is assigned if the creature drops
to 0 hit points. A creature knocked
unconscious by the spell is stabilized at 0
hit points, as if by the spare the dying
cantrip.
Higher Levels.  When you cast
this spell using a spell slot of 4th level or higher, the damage increases by 1d6 for each slot
level above 3rd.
“When a new practitioner of the Art becomes a
part of Waterdeep’s Force Grey, I often contrive
to make sure this spell finds its way into their
repertoire, for the protection of bystanders in the
wards of Waterdeep.
“Mages who know this spell, yet choose to
instead cast fireball on the city’s streets, seldom
last long in my city.”


Unknown Spell 857
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self
Components:  V, S, M (dust or bone fragments
from any destroyed undead creature)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 hour
You shroud yourself in necrotic energy, temporarily
gaining the traits of
undeath. Your
appearance does
not change except
for a very slight
pallor, but your
creature type
changes to
undead for

Page 261
the duration of the spell.
Nonintelligent undead creatures perceive you as
one of their kind, ignoring you. Intelligent undead
do not immediately recognize you as alive, but may
question whether you are undead. Any ability check
made to determine that you are not truly undead is
made with disadvantage, and you have advantage
on all Charisma checks to convince others of your
undead nature.
If an undead creature does target you directly
with an attack or a harmful spell, that creature must
make a Wisdom saving throw (an undead needn't
make the save when it includes you in an area
effect, such as the explosion or fireball). On a failed
saving throw, the creature must choose a new target
or forfeit targeting someone else, potentially
wasting the attack or spell. A creature automatically
succeeds on this saving throw if it has made a
successful saving throw against this effect within
the last 24 hours or it has seen you target an undead
creature with an attack or other harmful effect
within the last 24 hours.
Because you are undead, if a spell or other effect
states that it does not affect undead, then it does
not affect you for the spell’s duration. Conversely,
effects that do affect undead (such as the Turn
Undead class feature) affect you as such.


Unknown Spell 858
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 90 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a wax candle lit and held for
the duration)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
Three fiery orbs appear and hover above you for the
duration. As part of the action used to cast the spell,
you can launch all the motes at targets you can see
within range. However, a target can attempt a
Dexterity saving throw to avoid the fiery motes. On
a failed save, the target takes 2d6 fire damage, and
the mote detonates. The target and each creature
within 10-feet of the burst must make a Dexterity
saving throw. On a failed save a creature takes 5d6 fire damage, or half as much on a successful one.
Targets within 45 feet of the caster have
disadvantage on the initial saving throw.
If a target makes the initial Dexterity saving
throw, the mote misses and flies to the extent of the
spell’s range and then bursts with the same effects
described above. The caster can fire all the motes
the first round or use an action to fire the remaining
motes before the duration expires.


Unknown Spell 859
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components:  V
Duration:  Instantaneous
You let out a thunderous shout that blasts outward
from you in a 30-foot cone. A creature caught in the
blast must succeed on a Constitution saving throw
or take 4d6 thunder damage and be deafened until
the end of its next turn. On a successful save, the
creature takes half the damage and isn’t deafened.
A creature made of inorganic material such as
stone, crystal, or metal has disadvantage on this
saving throw. A nonmagical object that isn't being
worn or carried also takes the damage if it's in the
spell's area. The sound of the shout can be heard up
to 500 feet away (or farther with a successful
Wisdom (Perception) check as determined by your
DM).
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 5th level or higher, the thunder
damage increases by 1d6 for every slot level above
4th.


Unknown Spell 860
Casting Time:  1 minute
Range: 30 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a crushed emerald worth at
least 100 gp, which the spell consumes)
Duration:  Permanent

Page 262
You seal a door, chest, book, or other object that
can be closed with a magical sigil that bars entry
and prevents opening. The protected object can
only be opened if broken, or with knock or dispel
magic. However, if the object is forced open by any
means (physical or magical), the sigil explodes in
30-foot radius for 10d4 force damage. A successful
Dexterity saving throw halves the damage.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 4th level or higher, the amount of
force damage increases by 1d4 per slot level above
3rd.


Unknown Spell 861
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S, M (a pinch of dried tea leaves)
Duration:  1 hour
You burn prophetic herbs, and the billowing smoke
grants visions of future danger, giving one creature
you touch preternatural foresight in battle. The next
time the creature makes a Dexterity check for
initiative before the spell ends, it treats any roll of 9
or lower on the d20 as a 10. In addition, for the
duration, when the target fails a Wisdom check, if
that failure would cause it to be surprised, it can
reroll that ability check. It must use the second roll.
The spell ends early on a target whenever that
creature makes an ability check for initiative.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, you can touch and
affect one extra creature for every two spell levels
above 1st.
“When a wizard knows both the nerveskitter and sign
of warning spells, choosing which of the two to prepare
is mostly a matter of personal preference. I know Lady
Laeral prefers the former, while I favor the latter.
“In certain highly dangerous situations, some mages
choose to employ both, all but ensuring no enemy can get the drop on them.”


Unknown Spell 862
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components:  S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
For the duration, while you are within range, the
selected door, chest, gate, or other object with a
maximum volume of 10 cubic feet does not make
any noise when it is opened or closed.


Unknown Spell 863
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self
Components:  V, M (pieces of amber worth a total
of 5,000 gp, which are consumed in the casting of
this spell)
Duration:  1 year
You use several pieces of ancient amber to create a
matrix that contains spells you cast, frozen in time
until you need them. While casting this spell you
cast up to three spells of 1st through 3rd level, and
you choose a command word. When the command
word is spoken, all three spells take effect
immediately, in the order they were cast, as if you
had just cast all three of them in the same turn, and
the spell ends. At the time they are unleashed, you
make all decisions for each of these spells (targets,
area, etc.) that you would normally make as the
caster. You may only have one Simbul’s spell
sequencer  active at a time.
Only spells with a casting time of 1 action or 1
bonus action can be cast into your spell sequencer.
When you create the sequencer, you reduce your
maximum Hit Dice by a number equal to the total
combined levels of the spell slots used to cast the
spells you place in it. Your maximum number of Hit
Dice does not return to normal until the spell ends.

Page 263
If the duration expires and you did not speak the
command word, or if you choose to dismiss the
spell, the spell ends, and the other spells you cast
into your sequencer are lost.
“A unique , powerful, and effective spell, created by a
truly gifted mage. Since they were both close to the
Simbul, Elminster and Laeral can both likely share
some further notes of interest about her career.”


Unknown Spell 864
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self (50-foot line)
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Instantaneous
You hold out your hand and unleash a wave of dark
energy that rots your victims. Every creature within
a 50 foot line must make a Constitution saving
throw. They take 6d6 necrotic damage on a failed
saving throw and half as much on a successful one.
The creature’s hit point maximum is also reduced
by the amount of damage taken.
At Higher Levels.  You can cast this spell using a
5th level or higher spell slot. You inflict plus 1d6
damage for each spell level above 4th.
“In contrast with the previous spell, I have no
recollection of who Sinsabur was at all, other than that
they apparently hailed from the region of Faerûn
known as the Unapproachable East.”


Unknown Spell 865
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self
Components:  V, S
Duration:  1 minute Your arms transform into snakes when you cast this
spell. On each of your turns, you can make two
melee spell attacks with the snakes, with a reach of
10 feet. On a hit, a target takes poison damage equal
to 1d8 + your spellcasting ability modifier. In
addition, the target must make a Constitution
saving throw, or be poisoned until the start of your
next turn.
You cannot cast spells with somatic or material
components while this spell is active, and holding
things will be difficult at best. This spell cannot be
dismissed (though it can be dispelled). It lasts a full
minute regardless of the caster’s wishes.


Unknown Spell 866
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: Self
Components: V
Duration: 1 round
If you have already willingly moved this turn, this
spell fails. You shunt away some time from the
current moment, stealing it from yourself now to
grant yourself an extra opportunity to act in the
future. Once you cast this spell, your speed is
halved until the end of this turn. After the end of
this turn, you gain the following benefits, which last
until the end of your next turn:
 Your speed is doubled
 You gain a +2 bonus to AC
 You have advantage on Dexterity saving throws
 You gain an additional action during your turn.
That action can be used only to take one of the
following actions: Attack (one weapon attack
only), Dash, Disengage, Hide, or Use an Object.
Each time you cast this spell, if you have
previously cast it one or more times within the past
minute, you suffer 1 level of exhaustion.

Page 264


Unknown Spell 867
Casting Time: 1 reaction, which you take when you
would make a Dexterity check for initiative
Range: Self
Components: S
Duration: Instantaneous
At the moment hostilities begin, you can
immediately seek to evade your foes' notice. As part
of the reaction used to cast this spell, you can move
up to your speed without provoking opportunity
attacks, before initiative is resolved. If you have any
cover or concealment at the end of this movement,
you can take the Hide action as part of the same
reaction, and you can even attempt to hide from
creatures who saw you move.


Unknown Spell 868
Casting Time:  1 minute
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S, M (a bolt or arrow)
Duration:  1 round
You charge an arrow or bolt with energy that is an
anathema to a creature. Choose one creature type
while casting, and while casting you can fire the
arrow or bolt, or give it to an ally to fire on their
turn. If the arrow or bolt hits, and the creature
struck is the creature type named during the spell
casting, the creature must make a Constitution
saving throw. If the creature has more than 50 hit
points they automatically make this save. If they fail
they are slain. If they pass the arrow does 8d6
necrotic damage in addition to its regular damage.
This extra damage ignores resistance and immunity.


Unknown Spell 869
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 120 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a pinch of black sand)
Duration:  Instantaneous A target you choose within range must make an
Intelligence saving throw. If it fails the save, its next
sleep is wracked with terrifying nightmares, and
does not gain any of the benefits of a long rest. After
that, every time it finishes a long rest, it must make
the Intelligence saving throw again. If it fails, it
gains no benefit from the long rest. If it succeeds,
the spell ends. The spell continues until the target
makes its Intelligence saving throw, or until it dies.
“Nightmares —to my experience, they are
worse than any physical torture one
might devise.”
“A bold statement from one who has spent time in the
Hells, yet one which also betrays some ignorance about
the most extreme methods of physical torture.”


Unknown Spell 870
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: Self
Components: V
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
A corona of white psychic energy emanates from
your head and eyes as you enter a combat trance
that allows you to anticipate your enemy's actions.
For the duration, no attack against you can benefit
from advantage, opportunity attacks are made
against you with disadvantage, and you gain
advantage on Wisdom checks to discern
information about creatures that are not friendly to
you. In addition, until the spell ends, whenever an
attack roll is made against you or a friendly creature
within 5 feet of you, you can use your reaction to
move up to 10 feet without provoking opportunity
attacks.
“The origins of this spell are obscure. It may be
the adapted version of a psionic effect.”

Page 265


Unknown Spell 871
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 90 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a few drops of stagnant
pond water)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
A 20-foot radius area you can see within range is
covered in green slime  (see “Dungeon Hazards” in
chapter 5 of the Dungeon Master’s Guide). Each
creature in the area is also covered in a patch of
green slime. A creature moving through the area
must make a DC 10 Dexterity saving throw for every
5 feet travelled to avoid being covered in a patch of
green slime.
You can use an action to cause the area of slime
to move in a wave up to 10 feet in a direction you
choose. Any creatures in the area of the wave are
covered in a patch of green slime. Any creature that
was previously covered by the slime, but no longer
in its area, must still deal with the green slime as
normal.


Unknown Spell 872
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 50 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a small
piece of ivory)
Duration:  Concentration, up
to 1 minute
You conjure a small sphere of
freezing energy which you
can hurl at your enemies.
Make a ranged spell attack.
If you hit you inflict 1d6
plus your spellcasting
ability modifier cold
damage. For the duration,
you can use your action to
summon and hurl another
sphere of freezing energy.
At Higher Levels.  You can cast this spell using a 2nd level or higher spell slot,
and you inflict plus 1d6 damage for every spell level
above 1st.
“A further innovation of this spell, S nilloc’s snowball
swarm, is the most popular of the titular mage’s
creations. Yet the one-at-a-time version has its uses as
well.”


Unknown Spell 873
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S
Duration:  8 hours
You create pockets of air around your legs and feet,
which allow you to hover slightly above snowy
surfaces. For the duration, moving through difficult
terrain made of ice or snow doesn’t cost you extra
movement and you don’t risk slipping.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, you can touch and
effect one extra creature for every two slot levels
above 1st.


Unknown Spell 874
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 90 feet
Components:  V, S, M (three
drops of water in the palm of
your hand)
Duration:  1 minute
Choose an area of snow
within range. The area
transforms into 3 giant
constrictor snakes. As part
of the action used to cast
the spell and by using your
action on subsequent turns,

Page 266
you can direct the snakes to move and attack
creatures within their reach. When a snake hits a
target with its attack, the creature takes an
additional 1d6 cold damage.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 7th level or higher, you create one
extra giant constrictor snake for every two slot
levels above 5th.


Unknown Spell 875
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self (120-foot radius)
Components:  V, S, M (a musical instrument)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 hour
You play a musical instrument and recite a valorous
song that bolsters nearby allies. All allies that start
their turns within the spell’s radius have advantage
on Wisdom saving throws and are immune to being
frightened or charmed for the duration.


Unknown Spell 876
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 10 feet
Components:  V, S,
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 hour
You summon a magical quill that writes down
anything you say. The quill can write on any
surface. The quill will not scribe magic spells, but
any command words you would use to activate
some kind of magical effect can be recorded. The
quill continues writing and does not run out of ink
for the duration.


Unknown Spell 877
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S, M (a pinch of dust from the
bones of a lich)
Duration:  24 hours Your touch corrupts your victim's very soul,
damaging some of its mental characteristics. Make a
melee spell attack against a creature within your
reach. On a hit, the target takes 3d6 psychic damage
and has disadvantage on Wisdom checks, Wisdom
saving throws, Charisma checks, and Charisma
saving throws. At the end of the target's next turn, it
must make an Intelligence saving throw. If it
succeeds, the spell ends. If it fails, it may make
another Intelligence saving throw 1 minute later. If
it succeeds, the spell ends. If it fails, the spells
effects last for the duration.
This spell can also be ended with greater
restoration , heal, or wish. However, the caster of a
greater restoration or heal spell must choose to
affect either the Wisdom or Charisma of the target
of this spell. Only the effects of this spell on ability
checks and saving throws for the selected ability are
affected. Thus, it requires two castings of greater
restoration  or heal (or one of each) to remove all the
effects of this spell.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 6th level or higher, the psychic
damage increases by 1d6 for each slot level above
5th.
“In necromantic circles, for a time there were three
different spells bearing this name. This one has proven
to be the most popular, and the others are now lost or
known by other names.”
“For all its alleged popularity, ‘tis still a foul piece
of work.”


Unknown Spell 878
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: Self
Components: S
Duration: Instantaneous

Page 267
Creatures around you find their attention drawn
elsewhere, allowing you to slip away. Until the end
of the turn, all Wisdom (Perception) checks to
perceive you are made at disadvantage. In addition,
each creature of your choice that you can see must
make a Wisdom saving throw. Non-hostile
creatures have disadvantage on this saving throw,
but creatures immune to being charmed
automatically succeed.
If even one creature fails the save, you can
immediately move up to your speed without
provoking opportunity attacks. You can move
through the spaces of hostile creatures during this
movement as if they were friendly. If you have any
cover or concealment at the end of this movement,
you can take the Hide action as part of the same
bonus action used to cast this spell, with this Hide
action allowing you to attempt to hide from
creatures who saw you move.


Unknown Spell 879
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You imbue an undead target with a sliver of life,
making it vulnerable to conditions that usually
affect the living. When you cast this spell, you make
a melee spell attack against an undead target. On a
hit, the undead creature must make a Wisdom
saving throw or lose all of its condition immunities.
The target also loses its damage resistances, and its
damage immunities become resistances instead.
After the spell expires, the target knows what you
have done, and will likely have a hostile attitude
toward you.


Unknown Spell 880
Casting Time:  1 action
Components:  V, S
Range: Touch
Duration:  24 hours You touch one willing ally. You and this ally can
communicate verbally no matter how much
distance is between you, as long as you are on the
same plane. You will hear what your ally chooses to
tell you, no matter the volume, and vice versa. You
do not hear any other sounds from your ally’s
location. This spell works on any creature with an
Intelligence of 3 or greater, but does not bestow any
ability to comprehend an unknown language. You
or the ally can end the spell at any time.


Unknown Spell 881
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self
Components: V, S
Duration: 1 minute
You marshal psychic energies to move with speed
and acrobatic grace. When you cast this spell, you
gain two speed points.  For the duration, as a bonus
action on your turn, you can expend a speed point ,
granting yourself all of the following benefits until
the end of that turn:
 Your speed increases by 10 feet.
 You have resistance to falling damage.
 Difficult terrain does not reduce your speed.
 You have a climb speed equal to your walking
speed.
 Opportunity attacks against you are made with
disadvantage.
 You add 10 feet to your long jump distance and 3
feet to your high jump distance.
 You have advantage on Dexterity (Acrobatics)
and Strength (Athletics) checks.
 You can move up, down, and across vertical
surfaces and upside down along ceilings, while
leaving your hands free.
 You do not sink when moving over soft or
brittle terrain, such as dust, silt, mud, snow, or
thin ice. This effect does not allow you to move
over liquid surfaces.

Page 268
 If you move at least 20 feet straight toward a
creature and then hit it with a melee weapon
attack on the same turn, that attack inflicts an
additional 1d4 damage.
At the end of the turn, the benefits fade entirely
until you spend another speed point . If these
benefits end while you are still on a vertical surface,
or anywhere else where you would normally fall or
sink, you immediately fall or begin to sink unless
you have some other means to remain there.
This spell ends when its duration expires, when
you cast this spell again, or when you have spent all
your speed points . When the spell ends, any unspent
speed points  are lost.
At Higher Levels.  If you cast this spell with a
spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the extra damage
you inflict with melee weapon attacks against
opponents when you move 20 feet increases by 1d4
for each slot level above 1st. In addition, if you cast
this spell with a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, you
gain one additional speed point for every two slot
levels above 1st.
“The sorcerer who first created this
spell seems to have adapted it from
certain psionic disciplines practiced by
esoteric mystics. It is a highly versatile
spell that requires very little energy to
cast. Well worth considering for thy
spellbook.”


Unknown Spell 882
Casting Time:  10 minutes
Range: Self (30-feet)
Components:  V, S, M (a disc of polished bone, one
of your tears, and a silver wheel worth 500 gp)
Duration:  Varies
When you cast this spell, a light appears above you
that provides illumination in a 30-foot radius. While
studying your spellbook under this light, you may
swap out any of the spells you have prepared,
trading each spell you choose to swap out for a new one of the same level. Normally, preparing each new
spell takes 1 minute per level of that spell, but while
this spell is active, the preparation time is halved.
This spell does not refresh any spent spell slots.


Unknown Spell 883
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
The creature you touch has advantage on saving
throws against spells, and has resistance to damage
from spells for the duration.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 7th level or higher, you can touch and
affect one extra creature for every two slot levels
above 5th.


Unknown Spell 884
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S, M (holy water)
Duration:  8 hours
You anoint a creature with holy water, and a 20-foot
radius sphere of air surrounds it, allowing creatures
inside it to breathe in any environment. The sphere
moves with the anointed creature for the duration.
The sphere does not protect those inside it from
extremes of heat and cold, or other environmental
hazards.


Unknown Spell 885
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 120 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a pinch of dust from a
disintegrated creature)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute

Page 269
You conjure a 5-foot diameter featureless black
sphere of nothingness that disintegrates almost
anything it touches. The sphere appears in an
unoccupied space of your choice within range and
lasts for the duration.
Any creature that ends its turn within 5 feet of
the sphere must make a Dexterity saving throw. The
target takes 12d6 + 60 force damage on a failed save,
or half as much on a success. If this damage reduces
the target to 0 hit points, it is disintegrated, as if by
the disintegrate  spell. A disintegrated creature and
everything it is wearing and carrying, except magic
items, are reduced to a pile of fine gray dust. The
creature can be restored to life only by means of a
true resurrection or a wish spell.
As an action, you can move the sphere up to 30
feet. When you move the sphere, it flies, and you
can move it any direction you wish. If you ram the
sphere into a creature, that creature must make the
saving throw against the sphere’s damage. If you
ram the sphere into a Medium or smaller object
that is not being held or carried, that object is
disintegrated. If you ram this sphere into a Huge or
larger object, it disintegrates the 5-foot cube area of
that object it strikes. If you ram the sphere into a
creation of magical force (such as the wall created
by a wall of force spell), it has the same effect on
that magical force that it would have on an object of
the same size. Magic items are not affected by this
spell.
Whenever you ram the sphere into a creature or
object, it uses up 10 feet of movement for every 5
feet it moves through the space occupied by that
creature or object. No object or creature can be
affected by the sphere more than once in the same
turn.
Casitng Time:  1 action
Range: Self (60-foot radius)
Components:  V, S, M (a diamond sphere worth at
least 10,000gp, which the spell consumes)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 10 minutes You throw the
diamond sphere
into the air and it
explodes into
multicolored
light. The light
hangs in the air
above you and
follows your
movement. The
light emits bright
light out to 30 feet
and dim light for 30
feet beyond.
When you cast the spell you choose one damage
type. Anyone, including you that casts a spell using
a different damage type within the light must make
a Wisdom saving throw. If they succeed the spell
works as normal. If they fail the spell is countered.
The spell has no effect on a spell that was cast out of
the light. The light automatically dispels magical
and natural darkness within 60 feet on you.


Unknown Spell 886
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 50 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a dead spider)
Duration:  Instantaneous
You spit a glob of congealed spider venom at your
foe. Make a ranged spell attack. If you hit your foe
takes 2d4 poison damage. The spider venom is
sticky, and your foe must make a Strength saving
throw at the end of their next turn. If they fail they
take 2d4 poison damage. If they succeed, they
scrape the sticky poison off and the spell ends. Your
foe must repeat a Strength saving throw at the end
of their turn, taking damage if they fail, and ending
the spell with a success.


Unknown Spell 887
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 60 feet

Page 270
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 hour
You summon four otherworldly aberrations that
appear as giant spiders  in unoccupied spaces you
can see within range (your DM has statistics for
giant spiders). The spiders are friendly to you and
aid you to the best of their abilities. The spiders
have their own initiative and act on their own turns
for the duration. The spiders obey your commands
without you having to spend an action; if you don’t
issue a command, the spiders defend themselves if
they are threatened.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 8th level, you summon two extra
spiders.


Unknown Spell 888
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components:  S, M (a melee weapon worth at least
1 sp)
Duration:  Instantaneous
You spin your blade impossibly fast, creating silvery
strands of silk that bind nearby enemies. Choose up
to five creatures you can see within range. Make a
melee spell attack against every creature within 5
feet of you. On a hit, a target takes 5d8 force
damage and until the start of your next turn, its
speed is reduced to zero and it cannot benefit from
any bonus to its speed.
“Geran Hulmaster, one of the rare humans
directly trained in the Art of the swordmage by
the elves of the Coronal Guard, was a noteworthy
user of this spell. He learned it in service to the
Coronal of Myth Drannor, but employed it most
famously in large scale battles defending the
small city of Hulburg. His later career was
inseparably intertwined with the recent history of
that Moonsea port, which his family had ruled
before their exile.”


Unknown Spell 889
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 90 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a piece of onyx worth at
least 500 gp)
Duration:  Instantaneous
Choose a target within range that is at 0 hit points.
That target must make a Wisdom saving throw or
be slain. There spirit is trapped in the onyx, and
they cannot be resurrected until the onyx is
destroyed. The onyx van only hold one soul at a
time.


Unknown Spell 890
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self
Components:  V, S, M (a mask made of vines and
thorns)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 hour
You don the mask, linking it to a random faerie
spirit. Anyone attempting to target you or include
within the area of effect of a divination spell must
make an Intelligence saving throw. If they fail the
divination spell show images of the faerie spirit.
Faerie spirit will know its being observed and most
are intelligent enough to figure out why. Most
faeries will be curious, and a few will be openly
hostile toward you and the caster of the divination
spell. If the mask is destroyed before the spell
duration expires, the spell ends.


Unknown Spell 891
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 1 mile
Components:  V, S, M (a lit campfire)
Duration:  Instantaneous
You step into a fire and are immediately teleported
to another fire within range. Both fires must be the
size of a large campfire, a torch or even a small

Page 271
fireplace will not be large enough. The caster must
have an idea of where the fire is and what its
surrounding are like. If there is no suitable fire
within range, then the spell fails, and the caster
takes 1d6 fire damage.


Unknown Spell 892
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 5 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: 1 round
You unleash a howling host of warrior spirits who
died before they could defeat their foes, and for the
duration they assault your enemies while helping
you and your allies achieve victory. If you are good
or neutral, their spectral forms resemble angels or
ephemeral constructs (your choice). If you are evil,
they appear to be undead. Until the end of your
next turn, when a creature willingly leaves a space
within 5 feet of you or starts its turn there, it must
make a Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, the
creature takes 4d12 psychic damage and the next
attack roll made against this target before the end
of your next turn has advantage. On a successful
save, a creature takes half as much damage but
suffers no other effects.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 7th level or higher, the psychic
damage increases by 1d12 for each slot level above
6th.


Unknown Spell 893
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Instantaneous
For a moment, you cause the mere sight of you to
be painful to an enemy. The target must succeed on
a Charisma saving throw or take 1d8 psychic
damage. If the target is not missing any of its hit
points, it instead takes 1d12 psychic damage. The spell’s damage increases by one die when you
reach 5th level (2d8 or 2d12), 11th level (3d8 or 3d12),
and 17th level (4d8 or 4d12).


Unknown Spell 894
Casting Time: 1 reaction, which you take when you
roll a Dexterity, Wisdom, or Charisma check and
you dislike the result
Range: 30 feet
Components: V
Duration: Instantaneous
You can reroll the ability check that triggered this
spell. You roll 1d4 and add the number rolled to
your result. You must use the new roll, even if it is
lower.
“Though it was created for espionage (hence the
name), I think the best use of this spell is among
those engaged in delicate negotiations.”


Unknown Spell 895
Casting Time:  10 minutes
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S, M (incense worth 250 gp, which
the spell consumes)
Duration:  Up to 8 hours until triggered, and then 1
minute
You touch a creature and grant it protection for the
next 8 hours. The first time the creature’s hit points
drop below half its hit point maximum, it gains 25
temporary hit points, resistance to bludgeoning,
piercing and slashing damage, and a +1 bonus to
saving throws for 1 minute. Once the effect is
triggered and the duration expires, the spell ends.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 7th level or higher, you gain an
additional 5 temporary hit points and an extra +1 to
saving throws for every two slot levels above 5th.

Page 272


Unknown Spell 896
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 15 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  1 round
Make a ranged spell attack against a creature within
range. If the attack hits, the creature takes 1d4
lightning damage and it is charged with crackling
arcane energy until the spell ends. If the target
makes an attack roll before the end of its next turn,
it takes force damage equal to your spellcasting
ability modifier. If the attack hits, the damage the
attack inflicts is reduced by an amount equal to the
force damage dealt by this spell. Either way, the
spell ends after the attack is resolved.
At 5th level, the lightning damage from the
ranged spell attack increases by 1d4, and the force
damage dealt to a target who attacks equals 1d4 +
your spellcasting ability modifier. Both damages
increase by 1d4 at 11th and 17th level.
”Two artificers—both gnomes, one hailing from the city
of Korranberg on the world of Eberron, the other from
the island of Lantan off the Sword Coast of Abeir-
Toril, neither aware of the other’s existence—each claim
to be the inventors of this cantrip.
“One might be lying, or it could be a rare case of
parallel invention, but my own suspicion is that each is
taking credit for a spell that came to their world from a
third, as yet unknown source.”


Unknown Spell 897
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous You slow an opponent while making yourself faster.
Make a melee spell attack against the target. On a
hit, the target takes 1d4 psychic damage, and its
speed is reduced by 10 feet until the start of your
next turn. Until the start of your next turn, you add
a number of feet to your own speed equal to the
number of feet by which you reduced the target’s
speed.
At Higher Levels.  This spell’s damage increases
by 1d4 when you reach 5th level (2d4), 11th level
(3d4), and 17th level (4d4). In addition, the speed
you steal increases by 5 feet as well when you reach
5th level (15 feet), 11th level (20 feet), and 17th level
(25 feet).
“Some consider spells relating to certain
powerful, mysterious forces such as time, gravity,
true names, momentum, and the underlying
energies contained within all matter—to be
the most difficult to master. Different sages
across the Multiverse know these varied fields of
spellcasting by many names—chronomancy,
Cataclysm magic, dunamancy, chaos magic,
velocimancy, allomancy, cryptomancy, or simply
the magic of Forces— but there are few worlds
in which they are well-understood.
“Then, of course, there are spells like steal speed,
which manipulate these phenomena in an
extraordinarily sophisticated way, and yet do so
by means that can be taught to the beginning
apprentice. I attribute the research and creation
of such spells to a level of genius that no one can
be taught—like being a musical prodigy, it is a
miraculous talent one must be born with.”
“On the point of such ‘talent’ only being innate, I must
respectfully disagree with the lady. Should we give up
the study of wizardry and leave the most sophisticated
forms of magic to mere sorcerers, then? I think not.”

Page 273


Unknown Spell 898
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: Self
Components: V
Duration: Instantaneous
You must not yet have moved this turn, otherwise
the spell fails. Stepping through invisible folds in
the borders between planes, you teleport up to 10
feet to an unoccupied space that you can see, and
your speed is reduced to 0 until the end of the turn.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, your speed after
teleporting is halved instead of being reduced to 0,
and the distance you can teleport is increased by 20
feet for each slot level above 1st.


Unknown Spell 899
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S, M (several sticks)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 10 minutes
You turn a hand full of sticks into 1d4 + 1
constrictor snakes  (your DM has their statistics).
The snakes you create with this spell are friendly to
you and your companions. They obey any verbal
commands that you issue to them (no action
required by you). If you don't issue any commands
to them, they defend themselves from hostile
creatures, but otherwise take no actions. Once the
spell ends, the snakes turn back into sticks.
If another creature is holding sticks that you wish
to transform, if that creature does not wish the
sticks to be affected by this spell, you must make a
melee spell attack as part of the action of casting
this spell. If the attack misses, the spell fails.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 4th level, you transmute the sticks
into giant constrictor snakes . If you cast the spell
using a spell slot of 5th level or higher, you
transmute one extra stick into a giant constrictor
snake for every two slot levels above 4th.


Unknown Spell 900
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 50 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  1 minute
Choose one target within range. That target must
succeed on a Constitution save or spectral claws
reach into its chest and rip the air out of its lungs.
On a failure, it immediately begins choking (per the
rules in Chapter 8 of the Player’s Handbook ), and
until the spell ends it cannot take reactions, and it
can only take either 1 action or 1 bonus action on
each of its turns. During this time, it cannot move
unless it takes an action that allows it to move (such
as the Dash action).
The target can end these effects by using its
action to catch its breath. Once it does so, it is no
longer choking, and the spell ends.
Rules Tip: Choking and Suffocation


Unknown Spell 901
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self
Components:  V, S, M (a small piece of stone from a
stone golem)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute

Page 274
For the duration, your body is turned into living
stone. You gain resistance to bludgeoning, piercing,
and slashing damage from all sources except
adamantine weapons. You are immune to poison
damage, disease, and drowning, and to the blinded,
deafened, poisoned, and stunned conditions.
However, you also suffer disadvantage on all d20
rolls that include your Dexterity modifier. Your
speed is cut in half, and you weigh three times more
than normal.


Unknown Spell 902
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components:  V, S, M (three small pebbles)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You cast this spell on three small stone pebbles in
range, no two of which can be more than 30 feet
apart. The pebbles grow and turn into constructs
that look like stone spiders. The constructs can
grow up to huge in size. However, all the constructs
must be the same size. The constructs you create
with this spell are friendly to you and your
companions. They obey any verbal commands that
you issue to them (no action required by you). If
you don't issue any commands to them, they defend
themselves from hostile creatures, but otherwise
take no actions. Each stone spider has the same
statistics as a giant spider , with the following
exceptions.
 Its natural Armor Class increases by 6
 It has resistance to bludgeoning, piercing, and
slashing damage from nonmagical weapons and
immunity to poison and psychic damage
 Its poison save DC is equal to your spellcasting
DC


Unknown Spell 903
Casting Time:  10 minutes
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S Duration:  Concentration, up to 10 minutes
You grant an area of stone with a maximum size of
20 cubic feet the ability to speak to you for the
duration. You can ask the stone questions, and it
will provide answers to the best of its ability. The
stone can tell you what creatures have recently
passed nearby or have touched it, or what lies
beyond. However, the stone communicates with a
primordial intelligence, so you might not receive
the answers you’d expect.


Unknown Spell 904
Casting Time:  Special
Range: Special
Components:  V, S, M (crushed gems worth at least
5,000 gp, which the spell consumes)
Duration:  Permanent
This spell links any two buildings made of stone
that can be any distance apart but are both on the
same plane of existence. Each temple area must
have a stone platform large enough for one creature
to stand upon, which is used as a teleportation pad.
Before the spell is cast, each platform must be
prepared by crushing 2,000 gold pieces worth of
gemstones and performing a 10-minute ritual.
To complete the spell, you must perform another
10-minute ritual using the remaining 1,000 gold
pieces worth of crushed gemstones. During the final
ritual, a command word is chosen that will be used
to travel back and forth between the teleportation
pads. When the command word is spoken, one
person may be transported with up to 100 pounds of
gear.
Teleportation using this spell is infallible and
cannot be blocked by magical barriers or wards
against teleportation. If the destination pad is
blocked by solid matter, the traveller is sent to an
unoccupied space nearby.


Unknown Spell 905
Casting Time:  1 action

Page 275
Range: 30 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a miniature hand sculpted
from stone)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
This spell functions like  Maximillian’s earthen grasp
except the hand is made of stone, and it deals 3d6
bludgeoning damage on both the initial grab and
the crushing damage.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 5th level or higher, the amount of
bludgeoning damage increases by 1d6 for every two
slot levels above 3rd.


Unknown Spell 906
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: self (60 feet)
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
When casting this spell, you point in a direction and
emit a 60-foot cone shaped whirling vortex. As an
action on each of your turns, you can change the
direction of the cone up, down, or sideways by 10
feet.
The vortex whirls around any creature caught in
its area, blasting it with fist-sized balls of force, and
jolting it with small lightning strikes. The creature
takes 5d4 bludgeoning damage from the wind
buffets, and 2d4 lightning damage. A successful
Dexterity saving throw halves the bludgeoning
damage, but not the lightning damage.
In addition, a spellcaster caught in the cone must
make a successful Constitution saving throw when
casting a spell with somatic components. Though it
is against your normal spellcasting DC, this saving
throw is the equivalent of a roll to maintain
concentration on a spell, and special benefits or
other effects the creatures has on such Constitution
saving throws apply.


Unknown Spell 907
Casting Time:  1 action Range: 300 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  4 rounds
A furious storm erupts in a 40-foot radius, 100-foot-
high cylinder centered on a point you choose within
range. When you cast this spell, and again at the
beginning of each of your turns until the spell ends,
the storm produces one of the following effects,
starting with the first, and then progressing down
the list.
1st turn. The storm buffets the area with a raging
windstorm. No creature within the area can make
ranged attacks or be the target of a ranged attack. A
Small or smaller creature caught in the storm’s area
must make a Strength saving throw. On a failed
save, the creature is swept up, thrown 2d6 × 10 feet
in a random direction, and takes 1d6 bludgeoning
damage per ten feet thrown. A Medium creature
must succeed on a Strength saving throw or be
knocked prone. A Large or larger creature must
succeed on a Strength saving throw or its speed
drops to 0.
A Large flying creature that fails its saving throw
is blown 1d6 × 5 feet in a random direction, Medium
f lying creatures are blown 1d6 × 10 feet, and Small
flying creatures are blown 2d6 × 10 feet away.
For the spell's duration, any creature must make a
Constitution saving throw the first time it tries to
cast a spell inside the area. If it fails, it cannot cast
spells within the area until the spell ends. A
creature that failed its saving throw can make
another Constitution saving throw at the beginning
of each of its turns. If it succeeds, it can cast spells
normally again.
2nd turn . Rocks fall from the sky, pummelling
creatures caught in the storm’s area. Each creature
caught in the area takes 5d6 bludgeoning damage
(no save).
3rd turn . Heavy rain pours into the area,
automatically extinguishing unprotected flames,
and extinguishing protected flames 50% of the time.
Visibility within the area is reduced to 5 feet, and
the entire area of the spell becomes difficult terrain.
4th turn . Gouts of flame rain down from the sky

Page 276
into the storm’s area. Any creature caught within
the area must make a Dexterity saving throw. On a
failed save, a creature takes 14d6 fire damage, or
half as much if successful.
“The Kingdom of undair ’s First Warlord and Royal
Minister of Magic, Adal ir'Wynarn, is desperate to acquire
a cataclysmic spell of just this type . He yearns to rain
down death upon the forces of Thrane which occupy
aundair’s lost capital city , Thaliost.”
“Providing this spell would purchase great influence
over Adal, and through him over all of the wizards of
Aundair. The fact that casting it requires a higher level
of mastery than he possesses would , of course, not be
our problem. If anything, a greater need for arcane
empowerment would only encourage him to indebt himself
to us more.”
“I am beginning to understand why
Mordenkainen finds the idea of Blackstaff’s
grimoire falling into the hands of this rakshasa
wizard called Hektula so disturbing.”
“This grimoire continues to provide
entertainment as well as edification.”


Unknown Spell 908
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You conjure a small area of whirling air that
occupies a 5-foot radius sphere centered on a point
you choose within range. The swirling air forms a shield that blocks acid, cold, fire, lightning, and
thunder damage. The shield attracts all elemental
discharges and neutralizes them, granting all
creatures within a 30-foot radius from its center
immunity to the listed damage types. However, the
shield's immunity is limited. If the shield reduces
damage a creature would take to 0, the spell ends if
it is not the first time that the shield has reduced
damage that particular creature would have taken
to 0 since this spell was cast.


Unknown Spell 909
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
A 20-foot radius by 100-foot high tower of storm
winds surrounds you. The swirling winds nullify any
lightning effects that contact the barrier. In
addition, ranged attacks through the barrier are
impossible. A creature that tries to pass through the
barrier must succeed on a Strength saving throw;
otherwise it takes 2d6 bludgeoning damage from
the high winds, and it makes no progress. A
creature can make more than one attempt to cross
the barrier on its turn, but it receives one level of
exhaustion for each unsuccessful attempt beyond
the first.
Once the storm tower appears, it is stationary for
the duration, but you can move normally inside it.


Unknown Spell 910
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You gain a flying speed of 40 feet, and immunity to
bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing damage
inflicted by ranged attacks. You are also immune to
the effects of all wind or weather-based spells and
attacks (such as control weather ).

Page 277
In addition, as an action on each of your turns for
the duration, you can emit a single bolt of lightning
from your eyes as a ranged spell attack against a
target within 100 feet. You have advantage on the
attack if the target you select is wearing metal
armor. On a hit, the target takes 8d6 lightning
damage.


Unknown Spell 911
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self (30-foot radius)
Components:  V, S, M (sinew from an umber hulk)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
Choose a number of willing targets equal to your
spellcasting ability modifier that you can see within
range. You may choose yourself as one of the
targets. For the duration, every target has the
Strength statistic of the target with the highest
Strength.


Unknown Spell 912
Casting Time:  1 bonus action
Range: Self
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
The strength of elemental earth and stone infuse
your body. You gain advantage on all d20 rolls that include your Strength modifier, and when you make
an attack roll that gains advantage from this spell,
that attack inflicts an extra 1d8 damage if it hits.
This spell ends if you leave the ground at any time.
The walls and ceiling count as ground if you can
walk along either surface.


Unknown Spell 913
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S, M (a platinum ring with a
diamond worth at least 10,000gp)
Duration:  Instantaneous
You enchant a ring and choose a command word.
When the creature wearing the ring repeats the
command word, it is instantly teleported to the
nearest empty space to you. This spell fails if the
creature wearing the ring is not on the same plane
as you. Only one creature can be teleported by the
ring, but anything it is carrying comes with it.
“I often find myself needing to protect persons
who are of great importance to the city of
Waterdeep, but who have little ability to defend
themselves. More than once, the succor spell has
been crucial to keeping such folk alive.”


Unknown Spell 914
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V
Duration: 1 round
You bark a few seemingly simple
commands, but they are imbued with
the majesty of past warlords. Choose
up to seven creatures you can see
within range that can hear you when
you cast this spell. After you choose
these creatures, you can immediately
move up to half your speed. Once you

Page 278
end this movement, each creatures you chose can
use its reaction to move up to its speed without
provoking opportunity attacks. A creature which
moves in this way must end its movement within 5
feet of you.


Unknown Spell 915
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  1 minute
A ten-foot tall, very sharp stalagmite erupts under
your target, who must make a Dexterity saving
throw. On a failed save, the creature takes 6d8
piercing damage, and is restrained as the stalagmite
pierces its flesh. On a successful save, the target
takes half as much damage, but is not restrained,
and the spell ends. A creature restrained by this
spell cannot escape until it uses an action to free
itself by making a successful Strength saving throw,
or until another creature within 5 feet of it succeeds
on a Strength check against your spellcasting DC.
When the target is freed, it takes 2d6 piercing
damage, and the spell ends. If the target has not
escaped when the spell ends, the target is freed.
“To this day I recall the look of surprise
on that ogre’s face…”


Unknown Spell 916
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 120 feet
Components:  V
Duration:  Instantaneous
With a single word of magical power, you cause two
creatures to swap places. Choose two Small or
Medium creatures that you can see within range.
You can only choose two creatures which are either
standing on the same surface or standing on
surfaces which are physically connected by solid ground or structures. A creature which is unwilling
to be transposed gains a Charisma saving throw
against this effect. If neither creature makes a
successful saving throw, both creatures are
teleported, with each reappearing in the space
previously occupied by the other.


Unknown Spell 917
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self
Components:  V, S, M (a set of flensing knives)
Duration:  1 minute
You can sacrifice your own flesh to power your
spells. For the duration, for every 10 hit points you
channel into the spell the spell is cast as if it one
level higher. For example, while this spell is in
effect, you cast a fireball as a 3rd level spell, you
could channel 10 hit points to cast fireball as a 4th
level spell, 20 hit points to cast is as a 5th level spell,
etc. Channeling hit points into a spell lowers both
your current hit point total and your hit point
maximum. Your hit point maximum returns to
normal after a long rest.


Unknown Spell 918
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Instantaneous
Sacrificing some of your own vitality, you emit holy
energy that compels your enemies to come forward.
You hurl two rays, which can be aimed at one target
or split between more. For each ray, make one
ranged spell attack against a target within range. On
a hit, the target takes 2d6 radiant damage, and you
can pull it up to 15 feet closer to you.
You also take 2 points of radiant damage for each
ray that hit, which cannot be reduced by any means.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, you create one
additional ray for each slot level above 1st.

Page 279
“Forcing your enemies to confront you directly
before they are ready is a highly effective stategy
in magical and mundane conflicts alike.”


Unknown Spell 919
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 70 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a fish hook and line)
Duration:  Instantaneous
You shoot a bolt of blue flame at your enemy, who
shimmers for a second before teleporting to a place
of your choosing. Make a ranged spell check. On a
hit, you deal 5d6 psychic damage to the target and
it must make a Wisdom saving throw. On a failure,
you can teleport it to any empty space you can see
within 30 feet of it where it would be on solid
ground that can support its weight. Once the target
is teleported, it immediately provokes opportunity
attacks from all creatures within 5 feet of it.
“Khirad is both a blue-hued star and the face of
one of the foul Great Old Ones of Far Realm.
During apocalyptic events, it shines brighter,
becoming the most visible star in the sky.
“It brightened a great deal just before the
Time of Troubles, and in the century since it has
done so again many times, more often than than
in entire millennium prior. ”


Unknown Spell 920
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 90 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Instantaneous
A blinding flash of light leaps from your hand to a
target. Choose one target within range, that target
must make a Dexterity saving throw. They take 8d8
radiant damage on a failed save and half as much on a successful one. Undead are particularly vulnerable
to this spell, making the save with disadvantage.
Undead that are weak to sunlight (vampires, for
example) are blinded until the end of their next
turn if they fail the Dexterity saving throw.


Unknown Spell 921
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 5 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: 1 round
Your empowered strike hurls your foe to the
ground, hobbles it with panic, and causes it to
flinch with terror at every nearby movement. Make
a melee spell attack against one creature within
range. On a hit, the target takes 7d12 psychic
damage and falls prone. The target must make a
Wisdom saving throw, if they fail the target is
frightened of you, and its speed is halved until the
start of your next round. Undead, constructs, and
creatures immune to being frightened aren't
affected by this spell.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 8th level or higher, the damage
increases by 1d12 for each slot level above 7th.


Unknown Spell 922
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 120 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a magnifying glass)
Duration:  Instantaneous
A sun-like 10-foot diameter sphere of light appears,
centered on a point you can see within range that is
at least 20 feet above you. The spell fails if you can't
see a point in the air where the sun could appear
(for example, if you are in a room that can't
accommodate the required height).
When you cast the spell, choose a point you can
see within range, which is stuck by a blinding ray of
light from the false sun. Make a ranged spell attack,
ignoring cover. On a hit, the target takes 2d6

Page 280
radiant damage. If the target is undead, roll d8s for
this damage instead of d6s. A target that takes this
damage must make a Dexterity saving throw. On a
failure, it is blinded until the end of your next turn.
The false sun vanishes at the end of the turn, but
until then it sheds bright light in a 20-foot radius
and dim light for an additional 20 feet.
At Higher Levels.  You can cast this spell using a
spell slot of 2nd level or higher, increasing the
damage by 1d6 (1d8 against undead) for each spell
level above 1st.


Unknown Spell 923
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 50 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a stone)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You channel elemental heat from the Plane of Fire
into a stone. The stone glows red hot, but you can
handle it without any ill effect. For the duration, the
stone emits bright light for 15 feet and dim light for
15 feet beyond that.
You may throw the sunstone at a target you can
see in range, and the sunstone moves around any
obstacles between it and its target. Make a
ranged spell attack, ignoring cover. If you hit
the target takes 3d10 fire and 3d10 bludgeoning
damage. Whether the stone hits or misses it
returns to you. For the duration, you can use
a bonus action to launch the stone at
another target. When the spell ends the
stone shatters.


Unknown Spell 924
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
The creature you touch turns invisible, and
its scent and sound are masked for the spell’s duration. Like greater invisibility , the subject can
attack and cast spells without ending the spell. This
spell also hides the subject from blindsight,
tremorsense, and any other sense that would
normally reveal a hidden creature.
In addition, the subject of the spell is immune to
see invisibility , faerie fire , and similar spells for the
spell’s duration.


Unknown Spell 925
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S, M (a miniature cloak)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
Until the spell ends, whenever the target rolls a
saving throw, it can choose to roll 1d8 and add the
number rolled to one saving throw result. It can roll
the die before or after the saving throw. The spell
then ends. After the target has added this bonus a
number of times equal to your spellcasting ability
modifier, the spell ends.

Page 281


Unknown Spell 926
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a sprig of wolfsbane)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
Choose a lycanthrope in its animal or hybrid form
within range. That lycanthrope must make Wisdom
saving throw. If they fail they are forced in their
human form. The lycanthrope can repeat the
Wisdom saving throw at the end of their turn. If
they succeed, they can turn into their hybrid or
animal forms on their next turn.


Unknown Spell 927
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: Self
Components: V
Duration: Instantaneous
You infuse your body with the energies of time itself
and briefly move faster than should be possible.
Until the end of the turn, you don't provoke
opportunity attacks, your walking speed is
increased by 10 feet, and you have a climbing speed
equal to half your new walking speed. You can also
move up, down, and across vertical surfaces and
upside down along ceilings, while leaving your
hands free.


Unknown Spell 928
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  1 hour
Choose a fire within range. For the duration, the fire
consumes no fuel or oxygen. Even if the fire is
plunged into something that would normally
extinguish a fire (water, sand, or an enemy) the fire
continues to burn. An object removed from the fire consumes fuel as normal and will go out if all the
fuelor oxygen is consumed.


Unknown Spell 929
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 24 hours
You enter a heightened state of consciousness in
which you have complete awareness and control of
your body’s natural processes. Until this spell ends,
you are able to heal yourself for a limited number of
hit points. You gain a pool of 20 hit points worth of
self-healing. As a bonus action on your turn, you
can draw self-healing from the pool to restore a
number of hit points to yourself, up to the
maximum amount remaining in your pool.
Once all the self-healing of the pool is expended,
it does not replenish unless you cast the spell again.
When this spell ends, any unused healing in the
pool is lost.
Alternatively, if you have at least 5 hit points
remaining in your self-healing pool, you can use a
bonus action to neutralize one poison affecting you,
or to cure yourself of one disease or one of the
following conditions: blinded, deafened, paralyzed,
or poisoned. When you do this, the spell ends
immediately.
In addition, for the duration of this spell, you
don’t need to eat or sleep (though you still need to
finish a long rest to prepare spells or regain any
abilities that require a long rest) and whenever you
hold your breath, you can do so for five times as
long as normal. If you have at least 1 hit point
remaining in your self-healing pool, you have
advantage on saving throws against poison and
resistance to poison damage.
This spell ends when you finish a long rest, or
when you cast it again.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 4th level or higher, the pool of self-
healing it confers is increased by 5 hit points for
each slot level above 3rd.

Page 282


Unknown Spell 930
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 5 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a slashing or piercing
weapon)
Duration:  1 round
You make a wide, swiping arc with the blade you
used in the casting, and it glows red and leaves
symbols from ancient duelling rites burning in the
air above each foe you strike. Choose up to five
creatures you can see within range. Make a melee
spell attack against each target. On a hit, a target
takes 2d6 magical slashing damage, and you mark it
with your sigil until the end of your next turn.
While a creature marked by you with this spell is
within 5 feet of you, it has disadvantage on any
attack roll that doesn't target you. This spell ends
early if you are incapacitated or you die, or if
someone else marks the creature.


Unknown Spell 931
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self
Components:  V, S, M (a bejeweled short sword
worth at least 50gp)
Duration:  Until dispelled
As you cast this spell, you plunge the short sword
into the side of your own body. You or any other
creature within 5 feet of you can end this spell
instantly by removing this short sword from your
side, which requires only a DC 5 Strength
(Atheltics) check. Until the spell ends, you take 1d6
magical piercing that cannot be reduced by any
means at the start of each of your turns, and you
cannot regain hit points, but you are immune to
nonmagical bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing
damage.


Unknown Spell 932
Casting Time: 1 reaction, which you take when a
friendly creature besides you within 30 feet of you
takes damage
Range: 30 feet
Components: V
Duration: 1 round
You share another creature's pain, taking part of its
burden upon yourself. Targeting the friendly
creature who would take the triggering damage, you
roll 1d10. You add your spellcasting ability modifier
to the number rolled, and reduce the triggering
damage to the target by that total. However, you
take psychic damage equal to the same total, which
cannot be reduced or redirected by any means.
Until the end of your next turn, you and the
target both gains a +2 bonus to AC and saving
throws while you are within 30 feet of each other,
and if you and the target share a language, you can
communicate telepathically with it as long as it is
within 30 feet.
“When I take an apprentice, this is one of
the first spells I teach them. I make it very
clear that if I should suffer harm in their
presence, failing to cast  sympathetic
agony is never a forgivable lapse.”
“Any mage willing to place themselves
in my tutelage is made to understand the
price of the knowledge I offer, and that
they shall never be finished paying it.”


Unknown Spell 933
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S, M (an exceptionally crafted
small statue of an opened skull with a miniature
orchestra within the cavity, which is worth at least
1,000 gp)
Duration:  1 week

Page 283
A creature you touch loses its ability to sleep
restfully for the duration of the spell. Instead of
peaceful fantasies, the subject’s dreams are filled
with a discordant orchestra. Starting when the
subject next finishes a long rest, it has disadvantage
on Wisdom checks and Wisdom saving throws for
the duration of the spell.
In addition, until the spell ends, whenever the
subject finishes a long rest, it must roll a Wisdom
saving throw. If it fails, it does not gain the benefits
of that long rest.
The subject is immune to the dream spell while
under the influence of this spell. This spell can be
ended by a remove curse  or greater restoration  spell
cast using a 7th-level or higher spell slot, in addition
to being dispelled normally.


Unknown Spell 934
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
For the duration, you can turn another spell you
cast into healing energy. Instead of its normal
effect, the spell you cast is held until you touch
another creature before the duration expires; the
creature you touch regains 1d10 hit points per level
of the spell slot used to cast the triggering spell, and
then this spell ends.
For example, you could cast this spell, and while
you maintain concentration, you could cast mind
blank using an 8th-level spell slot, and before the
duration expires, you could touch a creature and
cause it to regain 8d10 hit points.
“This spell is often known as The Simbul’s
Synostodweomer , after its creator, the Simbul,
known as the Witch-Queen of Aglarond, my
dearly departed sister.
“At first, I was surprised that Elminster had not
made this note, but he may yet find the pain of
my sister’s passing too acute for such a comment.
“Those familiar with my own history will no doubt mark places in this grimoire where I too
have chosen to remain silent.
“Yet writing about this spell gives me joy, not
sorrow, in remembering my sister, who was the
greatest spellcaster of us all—arguably the
greatest who ever lived. So much of her
instinctive grasp of magic is displayed here, her
cleverness and efficiency, that casting it almost
feels like having her by my side once more.
“The decades since the Time of Troubles have
piled up loss upon loss upon loss, more than any
prior century I can remember. Even for the most
powerful, in our hearts we all remain shackled by
time’s cruelties.”


Unknown Spell 935
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a toy soldier)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
When this spell is cast, you and up to six creatures
you choose within range have greater insight into
each other’s actions.
When an ally affected by this spell makes a melee
weapon attack against a creature that is within 5
feet of another ally affected this spell, they gain
advantage on the attack roll and deal an extra 1d6
damage of that weapon's type if the attack hits.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 4th level or higher, the bonus to hit
increases by 1 and the weapon damage increases by
1d6 for every two slot levels above 2nd.


Unknown Spell 936
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 hour

Page 284
You touch a creature and grant it immunity to all
poisons and diseases for the duration. This includes
immunity to curses that cause disease, such as
lycanthropy and mummy rot.


Unknown Spell 937
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 90 feet
Components:  V, S, M (an arrowhead)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
Choose one target within range, which must make a
Wisdom saving throw. If they fail, every ranged
attack or ranged spell attack that targets a creature
within, or originates within, 50 feet of the
enchanted creature will twist in the air to strike that
creature. Attack rolls must be made versus the
enchanted creature’s AC. The enchanted creature
can repeat the Wisdom save at the end of their turn
to end the spell.


Unknown Spell 938
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 70 feet
Components:  V, S, M (iron shackles)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You summon spiked iron plates that surround and
impale a target within range. One target you choose
within range must make a Dexterity saving throw.
On a failure, it takes 8d8 piercing damage and
becomes restrained for the duration. On a success,
it takes half as much damage and is not restrained.
Restrained targets are entombed and impaled by
the iron plates. While the target is restrained by this
spell, attack rolls against it automatically fail, and it
cannot take any action requiring the use of its
limbs, except to make a Strength (Athletics) check
against a DC equal to your spell save DC. On a
success, the target escapes the tomb, and the spell
ends.


Unknown Spell 939
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self
Components: V,S,M (the ink and needles of a
tattoo artist)
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
When you cast this spell, your skin appears to be
etched by glowing needles that manifest around
your person for a few seconds before vanishing,
leaving your limbs and/or torso with colorfully
stylized tattoos of darts, daggers, or throwing stars.
You have six of these phantasmal tattoos, which
remain on your skin for the duration of the spell.
As part of the same action as casting this spell—
and as a bonus action on each of your turns
thereafter—you can expend one or two of the
tattooed weapons, appearing to snatch them off
your skin and hurl them with deadly accuracy
toward a point or points you choose within 120 feet
of you. As one of these phantasmal tattoo weapons
reaches its destination, it multiplies, becoming a
swarm of razor-sharp missiles. Each creature within
5 feet of the point you chose must make a Wisdom
saving throw. A creature takes 2d6 psychic damage
on a failed save, or half as much damage on a
successful one.
A tattoo projectile vanishes when you expend it,
decreasing your total number of tattoo projectiles.
When you use up all your tattoo projectiles, this
spell ends.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 4th level or higher, the number of
phantasmal throwing star tattoos created increases
by two for each slot level above 3rd.


Unknown Spell 940
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self (15-foot cone)
Components:  V
Duration:  Instantaneous

Page 285
Spectral draconic claws strike out from your body,
slashing at your foes and shoving them backward.
Each creature in a 15-foot cone emanating from you
must make a Dexterity saving throw. On a failed
save, a creature takes 2d10 slashing damage and is
pushed 5 feet away from you. On a successful save,
the creature takes half damage and isn't pushed.
Creatures that only have hit points equal to half
their hit point maximum or fewer have
disadvantage on the saving throw, and are pushed
back 15 feet on a failed saving throw.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the damage
increases by a 1d10 for each slot level above 1st.


Unknown Spell 941
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 120 feet
Components:  V,S
Duration:  Instantaneous
You surprise an enemy with an unstoppable
telekinetic impact. Choose one creature within
range, which must make a Strength saving throw.
On a failed save, the target takes force damage
equal to 2d6 plus your spellcasting ability modifier
and is telekinetically moved 15 feet directly toward
or away from you (your choice). On a successful
save, it takes half as much damage and isn’t moved.
You can only move it in a straight line through
space unimpeded by creatures, objects, or obstacles.
You can also move the creature up into the air,
which may cause it to fall.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the psychic
damage increases by 1d4 for each slot level above
1st. If the spell slot is of 5th level or higher, you may
target one additional creature within range for each
slot level above 4th.


Unknown Spell 942
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch  Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You establish a telepathic link with one willing
humanoid you touch. Until the spell ends,
whenever you and the target can see each other,
each of you can communicate with the other via
telepathy.
Creatures with Intelligence scores of 2 or less
aren’t affected by this spell. You don’t need to share
a language with a creature for it to understand your
telepathic utterances, and the creature understands
you even if it lacks a language. The creature can
respond to you telepathically as well, but it must
understand at least one language in order to
communicate this way.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 4th level or higher, the duration
increases to 10 minutes, and if either you or the
creature you are linked to are surprised, while both
of you can see each other, the surprised creature
can still act normally during the surprise round, as
if it were not surprised.


Unknown Spell 943
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self
Components:  V, S, M (an adamantine cone worth
20,000 gp)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
A cone of swirling energy surrounds you. Any spell
that targets you or includes you its area of effect is
absorbed into the cone. Note that a spell that
includes you in its area effect will not affect you, but
will affect other targets normally. Any spell you cast
is automatically absorbed by the cone.
On your turn, you can generate one missile for
every spell level the cone absorbed since your last
turn. Treat each missile as if it’s a magic missile that
inflicts 1d6+1 force damage. Any unused spell levels
are lost at the end or your turn.

Page 286


Unknown Spell 944
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S
Duration:  1 minute
You reach out and shunt another creature forward
in time. Make a melee spell attack against your
target. If you hit they are sent forward in time for 1
minute. When the target is drug into the temporal
vortex, you must make an Intelligence saving throw
(DC 20). If you fail you are drug into the vortex with
your target. You both reappear in the same spaces
you vacated, or the closest empty space one minute
after you were pulled into the temporal vortex. You
are otherwise unharmed.


Unknown Spell 945
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S, M (crushed diamond, emerald,
ruby, and sapphire dust, each from a gemstone
worth at least 500 gp, which the spell consumes)
Duration:  Instantaneous
You place yourself or another creature you touch in
a permanent state of suspended animation. Until
the spell ends, the target falls unconscious, it is
immune to all damage, it does not age, and it
cannot die.
The spell can be ended with a dispel magic  spell
cast at 9th level, or a wish spell. If you cast it on a
creature besides yourself, you can also use an action
during your turn to end this spell at any time.
If the target is unwilling, it can make a Wisdom
saving throw. On a success, the spell has no effect.


Unknown Spell 946
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 90 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a mind flayer’s tendril)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute The ice seems to freeze in your lungs as an emerald
green star appears in the sky. Tendrils the same
color reach down from inside that frozen star and
lift your opponents into the air, squeezing the life
out of them. Choose a number of targets within
range that and within 30 feet of each other equal to
your spellcasting ability modifier. They take 2d10
cold damage and 2d10 bludgeoning damage and are
restrained 10 feet in the air on a failed save. They
take half damage and are not restrained on a
successful saving throw. Targets restrained by the
tendrils take 2d10 cold damage and 2d10
bludgeoning damage at the start of their turns. A
restrained target may make a Strength check
against your spell save DC to escape the tendrils.
“The Revelations of Melech  and other
ancient texts tell us much of those Great
Old Ones from the Far Realm who
manifest in our reality as stars—faint
and distant Acamar; Hadar , the Dark
Hunger, cloaked within the dark nebula
of Ihbar; the purple star Caiphon;
Gibbeth , so feared and beloved among
mages of the Neogi; piercing blue Khirad,
Star of Secrets; Zhudun,  which shone its
baleful light over the Ruined Realm of
Cendriane in the Feywild before its fall;
and many others.
“Yet little is written of Thuban,
sometimes called Thuban of the Emerald
Seas. It is patron to more than a few
warlocks, yet they reveal precious little
about the nature of the being who holds
their pacts, nor of the powers it bestows.


Unknown Spell 947
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 50 feet
Components:  V, S

Page 287
Duration:  Instantaneous
You fire a thin ray of bluish energy from your hand.
Make ranged attack roll against an object that is not
being worn or carried, or against a building. Magical
objects and buildings are immune to this spell. If
you hit the target takes 8d8 force damage. If the
target is reduced to 0 hit points, it explodes.
Creatures standing inside or within 10 feet of an
exploding building or within 10 feet of an exploding
object must make a Dexterity saving throw. The
amount of damage they take depends on the size of
the object. If they successfully save they take half
damage.


Unknown Spell 948
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self
Components:  V
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You eyes glow and you instinctively sense how to
make your shots count. For the duration, attacking
with a ranged weapon at long range does not
impose disadvantage on your attack rolls.


Unknown Spell 949
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
This spell grants both of the following benefits, in
the listed order:  You can choose to become proficient wiith a
weapon you are not proficient in for the
duration.
 You can choose a weapon with which you are
proficient (which may be the weapon with
which this spell gave you proficiency). For the
duration you deal an extra 1d8 damage with that
weapon. The bonus damage type is the same
type as the weapon. You also gain +2 to all
melee attack rolls with that weapon.
“Many have noted that Tenser’s spells all seem to be
directly applicable to battle or military expeditions.
Before his death at the hands of the traitor Rary, he
was deeply dedicated to the causes of law and good.”
“Note that Mordenkainen chooses not to
comment on rumors of Tenser returning
to life and living under a secret alias.
“I suspect those curious about the
truth of these whispers would find a visit
to the sage of Manzorian of Magepoint
most enlightening.”


Unknown Spell 950
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self
Components:  V, M (a dried tentacle from an
octopus)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 10 minutes
Two 10-foot long green tentacles sprout from the
right and left sides of your body. For the duration,
you can use the tentacles to grab and manipulate
objects and aid in your attempts to climb. You have
advantage on your Strength checks to climb any
surface for the duration.
Additionally, you can attack with the tentacles. If

Page 288
you take the Attack action on your turn, you can
make a melee attack with one of the tentacles, and
then use a bonus action to make an additional
melee attack with the other tentacle against a target
within 10 feet of you. Both attacks use your
spellcasting ability modifier instead of Strength. On
a hit, a tentacle deals bludgeoning damage equal to
1d4 + your spellcasting ability modifier and the
creature is grappled. A grappled creature can
attempt to break free by using its action to make a
Strength saving throw. On your turn, you can use a
bonus action to constrict grappled creatures,
automatically dealing the bludgeoning damage
again.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 8th level, the bludgeoning damage
increases to 2d4 + your spellcasting ability modifier.


Unknown Spell 951
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S, M (a candle made of rare wax
worth 1000 gp, which the spell consumes)
Duration:  Instantaneous
You light the candle and deposit some of your hit
points inside. You cannot deposit more hit points
that you currently have. Depositing hit points into
the candle lowers your current hit point total and
your maximum hit points by the amount you have
deposited in the candle. If you are reduced to 0 hit
points, the candle melts and you regain the hit
points you have deposited in the candle. Your
maximum hit point total also increases by the
number of hit points you regain from the candle.
You may only be under the effects of one
Thanguul’s Preservation at a time. You and the
candle must be on the same plane when you are
reduced to 0 hit points or the spell fails. If the
candle is destroyed before you are reduced to 0 hit
points, your hit point total increases by the number
of hit points you deposited inside the candle, but
you do not regain any hit points. As long as you
have hit points deposited in the candle, it will continue to burn, but will not use any fuel. The
candle sheds bright light out to 5 feet and dim light
5 feet beyond that.


Unknown Spell 952
Casting Time:  10 minutes
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S, M (a suit of plate armor and a
longsword)
Duration:  Instantaneous
You touch the corpse of an evilly aligned humanoid
that has been dead for no longer than eight hours.
The creature rises and dons the suit of armor and
wields the longsword as it finishes its
transformation into a helmed horror  (your DM
has helmed horror statistics). It serves you and acts
on its own initiative, aiding you to the best of its
abilities. If it drops to 0 hit points, it turns to dust,
along with the plate armor and longsword.
This spell fails if you attempt to cast it again while
a helmed horror is in your service.


Unknown Spell 953
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 50 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a broken lock pick)
Duration:  8 hours
Select a 10-foot cube within range. Any item taken
from within that cube curses the taker with a loss of
coordination. The target will slip on level, dry floors
and constantly drop things. Any creature that
removes an item from the cube must make a
Wisdom saving throw. If they fail, the have
disadvantage on all Dexterity saving throws, attack
rolls, skills and ability checks. The target may repeat
the Wisdom saving throw once an hour to remove
the Dexterity penalty.


Unknown Spell 954
Casting Time:  1 action

Page 289
Range: 90 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a thorny vine)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
Thorns sprout from your target’s bones. The thorns
dig into your target’s body, making movement
tremendously painful. Your target must make a
Constitution saving throw, take 6d10 piercing
damage on a failure, and half as much on a success.
On a success, the spell ends, but on a failure, at the
end of each of the target’s turns for the duration,
the target takes 2d10 magical piercing damage if it
moved during its turn, as the thorns grind into the
target’s joints. If the target took the Dash action
during that turn, the damage is doubled. The target
can repeat the Constitution saving throw at the end
of each of its turns, ending the spell on a success.


Unknown Spell 955
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self (5-foot radius)
Components:  V, S
Duration:  1 round
You unleash the psychic power of your mind in a
wave that shocks nearby creatures’ minds. Each
living creature (not a construct or undead) other
than you within 5 feet of you must make an
Intelligence saving throw. On a failed save, a
creature takes 1d6 psychic damage and has
disadvantage on the next Intelligence or Charisma
check it makes before the until the end of its next
turn.
This spell’s damage increases by 1d6 when you
reach 5th level (2d6), 11th level (3d6), and 17th level
(4d6).


Unknown Spell 956
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (a piercing weapon)
Duration: Instantaneous You pierce the mental defenses of one creature you
can see within range. The target must make a
Wisdom saving throw, taking 5d6 psychic damage
on a failed save, or half as much damage on a
successful one. Also on a failed save, the target
cannot take reactions or the disengage action until
the end of your next turn, and it suffers
disadvantage on the next attack roll or a saving
throw it makes before the end of your next turn.
Finally, when a target fails its saving throw against
this spell, you instantly know its surface thoughts,
what is most on its mind in that moment.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 4th level or higher, the psychic
damage increases by 1d6 for each slot level above
3rd.


Unknown Spell 957
Casting Time:  1 bonus action
Range: 30 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Instantaneous
You broadcast a mental image or telepathic message
to nearby allies. Choose any number of non-hostile
creatures within range. These targets (and only the
targets) mentally receive the image or message you
chose to convey. If it is a message, it must be 10
words or fewer. Creatures with Intelligence scores
of 2 or creatures unwilling to have you
communicate with them aren’t affected by this
spell. You don’t need to share a language with a
creature for it to understand what you convey, but if
you send a message rather than an image, a creature
must understand at least one language in order to
comprehend the message.


Unknown Spell 958
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S
Duration:  3 rounds

Page 290
The recipient of this spell gains double-advantage
on three ability checks, attack rolls, or saving
throws it makes before the end of its third turn after
this spell is cast. When using this benefit, the
recipient rolls two extra d20s and uses the highest
of the three for its roll. Once this benefit is used
three times, the spell ends, or at the end of its third
turn regardless if uses remain.


Unknown Spell 959
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S, M (a small piece of a triceratops
corpse or fossil)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
Your fingers imitate the horns of a threehorn
(triceratops) against your own head before you
touch your intended target, which then grows large
horns, a bony skull plate, and a thickened hide. You
change a willing creature you touch into a saurian
form which resembles a hybrid of their natural form
and that of a three-horned dinosaur. For the
duration of the spell, the target gains the following
traits:
 They have advantage on all Strength checks and
Strength saving throws.
 Their carrying capacity is doubled.
 Their horns act as a gore attack, a natural
weapon with which they are proficient. This is a
melee attack which inflicts 2d8 piercing
damage.
 Their armor class cannot be lower than 13 +
their Dexterity modifier, no matter what kind of
armor they are wearing.
If they move at least 20 ft. straight toward a
creature and then hit it with a gore attack on the
same turn, that target must succeed on a Strength
saving throw or be knocked prone.


Unknown Spell 960
Casting Time:  1 reaction, which you take in
response to being hit with an attack roll by a
creature within 5 feet of you
Range: Self (15 foot cone)
Components:  V, M (a weapon)
Duration:  Instantaneous
As part of the reaction used to cast this spell, you
must make a melee attack with a weapon against
the creature that made the triggering attack,
otherwise the spell fails. On a hit, the target suffers
the attack's normal effects and each creature in a 15-
foot cone emanating from you must make a
Constitution saving throw as your weapon
unleashes a devastating blast of thunder. The cone
must include the creature that made the triggering
attack. On a failed save, a creature takes 6d8
thunder damage and falls prone. On a successful
save, the creature takes half as much damage and
doesn't fall prone.
The sound of this spell can be heard up to 500
feet away (or farther with a successful Wisdom
(Perception) check as determined by your DM).
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 7th level or higher, the thunder
damage increases by 1d8 for each slot level above
6th.


Unknown Spell 961
Casting Time:  1 bonus action
Range: 60 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a tuning fork)
Duration:  Instantaneous
You infuse a creature's armor with pulsing energy,
increasing its protection and knocking a single foe
away with an intense reverberation. Choose a
friendly creature within range that is wearing
armor. The subject gains a +2 bonus to AC until the
end of its next turn. You can also choose a hostile
creature within 5 feet of the ally. That hostile
creature must make a Strength saving throw. On a

Page 291
failed save, it takes 2d8 thunder damage and is
pushed 10 feet away from your ally. On a successful
save, the target takes half damage and is not
pushed.
You cannot cast this spell on yourself. The sound
of this spell can be heard up to 100 feet away.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 2nd-level or higher, the thunder
damage increases by 1d8 for each slot level above
1st.


Unknown Spell 962
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self
Components:  V, S, M (a small metal spear)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You transform a metal spear into a lance that
embodies the power of a thunder storm.
As part of the action used to cast the spell, and
again by using an action on each of your turns for
the duration, you can make a melee spell attack
against a creature within 20 feet. On a hit, the target
takes 6d6 thunder damage. If this lance leaves your
hand for any reason, such as if you are disarmed or
otherwise forced to drop it, you can call it back to
your hand using a bonus action.
The sound of the thunder can be heard up to 500
feet away (or farther with a successful Wisdom
(Perception) check as determined by your DM).


Unknown Spell 963
Casting Time:  1 reaction, which you take in
response to being damaged by a creature within 30
feet of you that you can see
Range: Self (30-foot radius)
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 10
minutes
You blast your
enemies away in a wave of thunder
and destruction. Each enemy within 30 feet of you must make a Dexterity saving throw. On a failed
save, the enemy takes 4d8 thunder damage, or half
as much damage on a successful save. In addition,
enemies that fail their saving throw are pushed 10
feet away from you and become deafened until the
end of your next turn.
The sound of the thunder can be heard up to 500
feet away (or farther with a successful Wisdom
(Perception) check as determined by your DM).
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 5th level or higher, the thunder
damage increases by 1d8 for each slot level above
4th.


Unknown Spell 964
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 hour
The skin of the creature you touch hardens into a
tortoise-like shell, and it can’t have an armor class
less than 18 for the duration, regardless of what type
of armor it is wearing. However, the creature’s
speed is reduced by 10 feet until the spell ends.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this
spell using a spell slot of 7th
level or higher, the
creature’s minimum
AC increases by 1
for each slot
level above
6th.

Page 292


Unknown Spell 965
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self
Components:  V, S, M (the heart of a child)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
For the duration, good aligned creatures roll saving
throw against your spells with disadvantage. In
addition, your spells add your spellcasting ability
modifier to their damage totals. Spells that target
individuals (e.g. magic missile) add the bonus to
one missile. Spell that effect a large area (e.g.
fireball) add the damage to the total rolled.


Unknown Spell 966
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
A purple-hued radiance surrounds your hand until
you successfully hit a creature with a melee spell
attack. On a hit, the target takes 3d10 poison
damage, and it must make a Constitution saving
throw. On a failed save, it is also poisoned until the
end of its next turn.
Once you hit a creature and deal damage, the
spell ends if the target made its saving throw, or
after the end of its next turn if the save was failIed
the spell end.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 3rd or higher level, the poison damage
increases by 1d10 for each slot level above 2nd.


Unknown Spell 967
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute  You can rob a creature of one of its unique traits
and give it to an ally. Make a melee spell attack
against a creature within your reach. On a hit, you
choose one special or racial trait which you know
the creature possesses (such as one you have seen it
use) and remove it from the creature until the spell
ends. For example, if you removed the Amphibious
trait from an aboleth or a water genasi, that
creature would no longer be able to breathe both air
and water.
When you cast this spell, you choose a second
target, which must be another willing creature
within 30 feet. Until the spell ends, that creature
gains the racial or special trait you removed from
the first target.
However, the Ability Score Increase racial trait,
Legendary Resistance, Innate Spellcasting, or
Spellcasting traits are not affected by this spell, nor
are any other traits that are either not listed under
the traits section of the stat block or not listed
among the traits it receives for being a member of a
certain race. You could not, for example, remove an
action or legendary action with this spell, nor could
you remove its Armor Class or Passive Perception.
The DM may also rule that certain traits are too
intrinsic to the nature of a creature to be removed,
such as the Water Form trait of a water elemental.
However, if a creature has no traits you can affect
with this spell, the DM will inform you before you
use an action to cast the spell.
At the end of each of the first target’s turns, it can
make a Constitution saving throw against the spell.
On a success, the spell ends.


Unknown Spell 968
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 120 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Instantaneous
You transform a natural area of stone within range
of up to 10 cubic feet in volume into an equal
volume of white-hot lava. A creature caught in the
area when the spell is cast must make a Dexterity

Page 293
saving throw. On a failed save, the creature takes
15d6 fire damage, or half as much on a successful
one. A creature that starts its turn in the area must
make a Dexterity saving throw and take fire damage
until it is no longer in the affected area.
If the rock transformed by this spell supported a
structure, that structure takes the fire damage (and
ignites if it is flammable), and also takes extra
bludgeoning damage equal to half the fire damage.
If a structure drops to 0 hit points, it collapses and
potentially damages nearby creatures, as described
in the earthquake spell. After 10 minutes, the lava
cools and turns back into rock.


Unknown Spell 969
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 10 minutes
You make a creature more likely to trigger traps.
Make a melee spell attack against a creature within
your reach. On a hit, the target has disadvantage on
ability checks to detect traps and and on saving
throws against their effects for the duration. In
addition, for the duration, that target’s is
considered to weigh an additional 250 lbs. for the
purpose of determining whether it triggers any trap.
Whenever the target triggers a trap, it can make
a Charisma saving throw against this spell at the
end of that turn. On a success, the spell ends.
This spell can also be ended by remove curse,
lesser restoration,  or greater restoration .
‘When dealing with a dungeon full of deathtraps,
casting this spell upon a mule and sending it ahead of
your party is a useful (if unpleasant) tactic.”
“Bah! Mules are useful and costly. Better
to use goblins or prisoners.”


Unknown Spell 970
Casting Time:  1 action
Components:  V, S
Range: Self (30-foot radius)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 hour
You can smell any copper, silver, gold, electrum,
platinum, or gems within 30 feet of you. If you are
more than 5 feet away from the treasure, you only
gain a sense of its direction. Once you are within 5
feet, you can determine what types of valuables
(copper, gold, opals, etc.) are present, and the
treasure’s exact location. This spell is blocked by 1
inch of metal, 1 foot of stone, or 3 feet of earth or
wood.


Unknown Spell 971
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 hour
You touch a willing creature and it gains
tremorsense in a 30-foot radius for the duration.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 4th level or higher, the range of the
tremorsense increases by 10 feet for every slot level
above 3rd.


Unknown Spell 972
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self
Components:  V, S, M (pieces of a troll’s heart)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
For the duration of the spell, you regain hit points
equal to your spellcasting ability modifier at the
beginning of your turn. If a limb or your head is cut
off, you may reattach them by using an action to
hold it up to the stump. If your head is severed
while under the effects of this spell you will be able
to see using your own eyes, but coordination will be

Page 294
difficult. Yoou have disadvantage on all Dexterity
saving throws, attack rolls, and skill checks until
you reattach your head. If you have taken fire or
acid damage since your previous turn, you will not
regain hit points this round. If you have not
reattached a severed limb and the spell ends, you
cannot reattach the limb. If the head is separated
from your body when the spell ends, you die.


Unknown Spell 973
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 50 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a pebble)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You hurl the pebble at an enemy within range. An
instant before the pebble strikes it turns into a
massive boulder. Make a ranged spell attack. If you
hit your opponent takes 6d6 bludgeoning damage.
The boulder shatters after hitting its target. You
may use an action to hurl a pebble on your turn for
the duration.
At Higher Levels. You can cast this spell using a
5th level or higher spell slot. It inflicts 1d6 extra
damage for every spell level above 4th.


Unknown Spell 974
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a ranged weapon)
Duration:  Instantaneous
As part of the action of casting this spell, you must
make a thrown weapon attack against a creature
within range, or the spell fails. However, you do not
make an attack roll. Instead, choose one creature
you have seen in the past minute. Your weapon
alters its path to move towards that creature,
moving around corners if necessary and ignoring
three-quarters cover and half cover. If the target is
within range and there is a path large enough for
the weapon to travel to the target, the target must
make a Dexterity saving throw.  On a failed save, the target takes the attack’s
normal damage and suffers its additional effects,
and you learn the target’s current location. On a
successful save, the target takes half damage from
the attack but suffers no additional effects that
would normally be imposed on a hit, and you don’t
learn its location.


Unknown Spell 975
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 120 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a loadstone and a pinch of
saltpeter)
Duration:  Instantaneous
When you cast this spell, a flash of magical energy
spreads out from you in a 120-foot radius. This spell
acts as a dispel magic  spell cast using a 9th-level
spell slot targeting all objects and structures within
range. Creatures within range are also targeted, but
spells affected those creatures are only dispelled if
they are causing those creatures to be charmed,
paralyzed, or stunned. The spell does not restore or
affect creatures turned to stone, or release bonded
creatures from service, such as familiars, invisible
stalkers, and genies.
Also, the spell does not penetrate or affect an
antimagic field  in any way. This spell does not affect
objects that are being worn or carried by a creature.
Finally, any traps attached to any objects affected
by this spell are triggered immediately the moment
spells affecting those objects are destroyed.


Unknown Spell 976
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: Self
Components: V
Duration: 1 round
You magically sense how to shift your weight from
step to step, staying atop a tricky surface. For the
rest of the turn, you have advantage on Dexterity
(Acrobatics) and Strength (Athletics) checks made

Page 295
to move, and you do not sink when moving over
soft or brittle terrain, such as dust, silt, mud, snow,
or thin ice (though you cannot walk on actual liquid
with this effect). While this spell is active, difficult
terrain of those types does not require extra
movement.
If you are already sinking into soft terrain when
you cast this spell, the spell instantly moves you up
to 5 feet towards the surface. When this spell ends,
if you are standing in a
place where you would
normally fall or sink, you
do so unless you have
some other means of
remaining there.


Unknown Spell 977
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 50 feet
Components:  V, S, M
(teeth from an animated
skeleton)
Duration:
Concentration, up to 1
minute
You may choose up to six
zombies or skeletons you
control within range.
Whenever one of the
chosen undead makes an
attack roll or a saving throw before the spell ends, it
can roll a d6 and add the number rolled to the
attack roll or saving throw. In addition, whenever
one of the chosen undead hits a target with a
successful attack roll, it inflicts extra damage on one
target of that attack equal to your spellcasting
ability modifier.


Unknown Spell 978
Casting Time:  1 action Range: 90 feet
Components:  V, S, M (the eyes of a zombie)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
Choose a zombie or skeleton within range you
control. For the duration, whenever you cast a spell
of 4th-level or lower, you can cast the spell as if it
originated in that undead creature’s space instead of
your own. If such a spell has a range of touch, you
can deliver the spell as if you were standing where
the undead creature is.
Whenever you cast a spell
as if it originated in the space
of the undead creature, it
takes 1d6 force damage for
every spell level you channel
through it. If the damage
exceeds the creature’s
remaining hit points, you take
the remaining damage. This
force damage cannot be
reduced by any means.


Unknown Spell 979
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self (30-foot radius)
Components:  V, S, M (a
ghoul’s fang)
Duration:  Concentration, up
to 1 minute
You channel necromantic
magic through yourself, bolstering your undead
allies nearby and knitting their rotten forms back
together. Once a turn you may use a bonus action
to choose an undead within range. That undead
heals 3d10 hit points.


Unknown Spell 980
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self (30-foot radius)
Components:  V, S

Page 296
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
Select up to seven friendly creatures within range
(one of which may be you). Each target is
surrounded by a crystal blue ghost-like aura that
grants it a +4 bonus to its Armor Class against all
attacks by undead creatures.
In addition, each target gains the benefits of the
death ward  spell, and it automatically succeeds on
any saving throw it makes against an undead
creature, unless that saving throw is against a spell.


Unknown Spell 981
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 90 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a bone fragment from a
lich)
Duration:  Instantaneous
A burst of energy disruptive to undead fills a 30-foot
radius sphere centered at a point you can see within
range. An undead creature caught within the burst
must make a Constitution saving throw. On a failed
save, the creature is destroyed. On a successful save,
the creature is slowed until the end of its next turn.
Undead with fewer than 7 Hit Dice have
disadvantage on the saving throw; undead with 10
or more hit dice or more have advantage on the
saving throw.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 8th level or higher, the hit dice
threshold for each saving throw tier is increased by 1
for every slot level above 7th.


Unknown Spell 982
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self
Components:  V
Duration:  8 hours
When you cast this spell, a familiar and soothing
song wells up in your mind. The song does not
distract you from any task at hand—on the
contrary, by humming along to the tune you can focus your mind with ease. For the duration,
whenever you make a Constitution saving throw to
maintain your concentration on a spell, you can
choose to make a Charisma (Performance) check,
substituting the result of that roll for the result of a
Constitution save.


Unknown Spell 983
Casting Time:  1 reaction, which you take when you
score a critical hit with an attack roll
Range: Self
Components:  V, M (a melee weapon)
Duration:  Instantaneous
When an astonishing strike opens a new
opportunity for you in battle, you focus your mental
energies to take full advantage of it. As part of the
reaction used to cast this spell, you make a further
melee weapon attack against a creature within your
reach. On a hit, the target suffers the attack's
normal effects. In addition, the target takes an
additional 1d12 psychic damage, and is frightened of
you until the end of its next turn.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 6th level or higher, the psychic
damage increases by 1d12 for each level above 5th.


Unknown Spell 984
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: Self
Components: V
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You draw upon ancient battle knowledge of the
past, calling out warnings to allies that help them
avoid solid blows. Until this spell ends, whenever
another creature besides yourself that is within 5
feet of you takes damage, you can use your reaction
to grant that creature resistance against all damage
except psychic damage until the end of that turn.

Page 297


Unknown Spell 985
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: Self
Components:  V
Duration: 1 round
Before casting your next spell, you use this one to
marshal all of your magical might and infuse it with
additional destructive power. Until the end of your
next turn, when you roll damage for a spell, you can
reroll as many of the damage dice as you wish. You
must use the new rolls.
“In most situations, the wisest course is
subtlety… Most, but not all.”


Unknown Spell 986
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self
Components:  V, S, M (a piece of animal skin large
enough to be worn over both shoulders)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 8 hours
Until this spell ends, you unlock the primal nature
of your body and mind, and you gain the following
benefits:
 You can substitute your spellcasting ability
score for your Strength score for purposes of
unarmed strikes (including both attack and
damage rolls), ability checks, and determining
your jump distance or carrying capacity
(including maximum load and maximum lift).
 You add your spellcasting ability modifier to
Dexterity checks and Wisdom checks.
 When you make an unarmed strike, the damage
you inflict is psychic damage, and you can roll a
d8 in place of the normal damage.
 Your speed increases by 10 feet.
 You can use your bonus action to make an
unarmed strike or take the Dash action.  You gain darkvision up to a distance of 30 feet.
 You can track other creatures while traveling at
a fast pace, and you can move stealthily while
traveling at a normal pace.
If you end your turn wearing heavy armor, you
must roll a Constitution saving throw against a DC
equal to your own spellcasting DC. If you fail, you
lose concentration and the spell ends.
If you roll initiative before this spell ends, if the
remaining amount of time you can maintain your
concentration on this spell is greater than 1 minute,
that duration is reduced, and you can only maintain
your concentration on the spell for up to 1 minute
after making the initiative roll.
In addition, when you make a Strength, Dexterity,
or Constitution saving throw, if the number rolled
on the die is 16 or lower, you can use your reaction
to treat the number rolled on the d20 as a 17. If you
do so, you gain advantage on all Strength, Dexterity,
or Constitution saving throws until the beginning of
your next turn, at which time the spell ends.


Unknown Spell 987
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components:  V, M (a broken horseshoe)
Duration:  1 round
You manipulate what was once an ode to fate,
speaking it in reverse and warping the weave of
fortune. Choose one target within range to make a
Charisma saving throw. On a failure, the target
takes 3d6 psychic damage and has disadvantage on
the next attack roll it makes before the end of its
next turn. On a success, the target takes half
damage, but suffers no other ill effects.
In addition, whether the target fails or succeeds
on its saving throw, you can choose one ally within
60 feet to gain advantage on the next attack roll it
makes before the end of its next turn.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, the damage
increases by 1d6 for each slot level above 2nd.

Page 298


Unknown Spell 988
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a jeweled dagger worth
10,000 gp, which the spell consumes)
Duration:  Instantaneous
You point at one target and speak one ancient,
terrible word that will blast your foe’s soul into
oblivion and reduce its body to ashes. Choose one
creature within range, which must make a Wisdom
saving throw or immediately die. A target with
more than 150 hit points automatically succeeds on
this saving throw. A creature slain by this effect
cannnot be brought back to life by any means,
including wish or true resurrection .
Speaking this word takes a toll on the spellcaster
as well. You must make a Constitution saving
throw, using the same DC as the target. If you fail,
you are slain outright, and cannnot be brought back
to life by any means, including wish or true
resurrection . On a success, you immediately die, but
you can be brought back to life normally by spells
like raise dead or true resurrection .


Unknown Spell 989
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S, M (a broken lock)
Duration:  2 weeks
You touch a lock, animating its interior workings
and imbuing them with the will to fight attempts to
open it without the proper key. Until the spell ends,
all ability checks to pick the lock are made with
disadvantage.


Unknown Spell 990
Casting Time: 1 reaction, which you take when a
hostile creature you can see within 30 feet of you
hits with an attack that damages you or one of your
allies
Range: 30 feet
Components: V
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
In the split-second a creature lets its guard down
after it makes a successful attack, you batter your
way into its mind. The creature that inflicted the
triggering damage must make a Wisdom saving
throw. It takes 4d10 psychic damage on a failed
save, or half as much damage on a successful one.
On a failed save, until the spell ends, you also gain
all of the following benefits against the target:
 As long as you and the target are on the same
plane, you always know its location, and if you
share a language you can communicate with it
telepathically.
 The target can't become hidden from you, and if
it's invisible, it gains no benefits from this
condition against you.
 The target provokes opportunity attacks from
you even if it takes the Disengage action before
leaving your reach.
 While you are on the same plane as the target,
you always know its surface thoughts what is
most on its mind in that moment and as your
action on each turn until the spell ends, you can
attempt to probe deeper into the creature's
mind, as if with the detect thoughts spell.
If you or the target are knocked unconscious or
killed, the spell ends early.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 5th level or higher, the psychic
damage increases by 1d10 for each slot level above
4th.

Page 299


Unknown Spell 991
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S,
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You touch a creature that is standing on the ground
(such as soil, rock, or a street). For the duration, the
creature's speed is reduced to 0, and all attempts to
move it from its current space automatically fail,
whether or not the creature is willing to be moved.
Effects that would move the creature only succeed if
they would also move all solid ground within 5 feet
of it.
In addition, the affected target gains life
preserving energy from its connection with the
ground. Until the spell ends, the creature gains
advantage on Strength, Constitution, and Wisdom
saving throws, it is immune to poison damage and
the poisoned condition, and it regains hit points
equal to its maximum number of Hit Dice at the
start of each of its turns.


Unknown Spell 992
Casting Time:  1 bonus action
Range: Self
Components:  V, S, M (a miniature propeller or
windmill)
Duration:  Instantaneous
When you cast this spell, a small vortex of swirling
air forms beneath your feet, lifting you upward. You
can rise a number of feet equal to 20 × your
spellcasting ability modifier. You can also move a
number of feet horizontally during any part of the
movement equal to 5 × your spellcasting ability
modifier. At the end of the turn in which you cast
this spell, you float gently to the ground if you are
still aloft.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, you can rise an
additional 20 feet, and move horizontally by
another 5 feet, for each slot level above 1st.


Unknown Spell 993
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You imbue one creature that you can see within
range with martial prowess. For the duration,
whenever the target takes the Attack action during
its turn, it can make one additional weapon attack
as a part of the same action.


Unknown Spell 994
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
Choose either yourself or a creature of your choice
that you can see within range as the spell’s target.
The recipient gains advantage on Strength,
Constitution, and Dexterity ability checks and
saving throws for the duration. In addition, until
the spell ends, the subject gains advantage on attack
rolls that include its Dexterity or Strength modifier.
When the subject takes the attack action on its
turn, it can make an extra melee weapon attack as a
bonus action.


Unknown Spell 995
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 20 feet
Components:  V, S, M (an incisor)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
A bright red whip of energy writhes in your hand.
Make a melee spell attack against a creature in
range. If you hit your target takes 6d6 necrotic
damage and must make a Constitution saving
throw. If they fail your target is grappled as long as
the lash is wrapped around it. If you use the lash to
attack another target, the initial target is released

Page 300
from the grapple. The target can
repeat the Constitution saving
throw at the end of its turn
to end the grapple. For
every point of damage
you inflict with this
spell you gain 1
temporary hit point, up
to a maximum of 10.


Unknown Spell 996
Casting Time:1  action
Range: 90 feet
Components:  V, S, M
(a flask of vampire
blood)
Duration:  Concentration,
up to 1 minute
You create a 20-foot radius
sphere of blood red mist centered
on a point you choose within range.
The mist spreads around corners and lasts
for the duration. A strong wind can disperse
the fog, ending the spell. The area is heavily
obscured.
If a creature enters or starts its turn in the mist, it
must make a Constitution saving throw. They take
6d8 necrotic damage on a failed save and half as
much on a successful one. This spell affects
creatures that don’t need to breathe, but has no
effect on undead or constructs. If a creature is
reduced to 0 hit points while in the mists, you heal
1d8 hit points. You may only heal damage from this
spell once a round.
The mists moves 10 feet away from you at the
start of your turn. The vapors are heavier than air
and sink to lowest level of the land.
At Higher Levels. You can cast this spell using a
spell slot of 7th level or higher, the damage
increases by 1d8 for each spell level above 6th.


Unknown Spell 997
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Instantaneous
Make a melee spell attack. If you hit you drain your
opponent’s life and vitality and use them to restore
yours. Your target takes 6d10 necrotic damage and
must make a constitution saving throw. On a
failure, your body becomes the physical age of your
opponent’s, and vice-versa. This aging/de-aging is
permanent. It can only be undone by a wish, divine
intervention, or another casting of this spell.

Page 301


Unknown Spell 998
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 120 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a shattered quartz crystal)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You create up to four 20-foot cubes. Any creature or
structure made of earth (crystal, dirt, stone, mud,
metal etc.) inside the cube must make a Dexterity
saving throw. They take 10d10 force damage on a
failed save, or half as much on a successful one. This
spell deals double damage to structures and ignores
the damage threshold for large structures. If the
creature or structure is reduced to 0 hit points, it is
turned into a thick grey mist that fills the cube.
Everything within the mist is heavily obscured for
everyone except the caster, who can see normally.
The mist lasts for 1 minute, or until dispersed by a
strong wind.


Unknown Spell 999
Casting Time: 1 reaction, which you take when a
creature you can see within 60 feet is reduced to 0
hit points
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
You temporarily infuse a dying creature with
necrotic power, allowing it to make one final strike.
Before becoming incapacitated, the creature can
immediately use its reaction to make one weapon
attack. If the attack hits, it inflicts extra necrotic
damage equal to your spellcasting ability modifier.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, the necrotic
damage inflicted increases by 1d6 for each slot level
above 2nd.
“A loathesome, treacherous spell, named for its
loathesome and treacherous creator.”
In sending this uniquely fascinating grimoire via
caravel to Martira Bay (from whence I trust our
mutual associate has conveyed it to you, my patron), I
had not intended to include any notes of my own in
its already crowded pages. However, in perusing the
spells within, I came across this spell, which I had
only previously seen named as your creation.
However, as recorded here, its name does not
attribute my patron at all. Rather, it is entitled Vecna’s
final command , seemingly referencing the powerful
undead archmage who briefly ruled the domain of
Cavitius, prior to the conflagration that consumed
the (aptly named) cluster of Burning Peaks. I write,
for scholarship’s sake, to seek a clarification, given my
patron’s obvious direct knowledge of the matter.
In any case, I remain grateful for my patron’s faith
in my researches. Please expect my next larger volume
soon, detailing my travels in the Nocturnal Sea, as
well as narrating how I found this spellbook in the
Library of Neverwere Manor, on the isle of Liffe, an
ordeal which I was fortunate to survive.
Regards,

S—
I return this spellbook, having my own
existing copy, cleansed of the distracting
scribbles of lesser minds.
Have a care what notes you make in such
tomes, especially with mention of your patron’s
name. These writings reach more eyes than you
know. It is not a sort of recklessness to be
tolerated twice.
As for my spell named falsely, do not concern
yourself with the subject again. Nor with Vecna.
“Now these notes are interesting. Most
interesting. And very, very useful.”

Page 302


Unknown Spell 1000
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self (100-foot line)
Components:  V, S, M (a drop of venom from any
sort of poisonous snake)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
A beam forming a 5-foot wide by 100-foot line of
caustic green energy blasts from your eye, mouth,
fingertip, or tail tip in a direction you choose. Every
creature in the affected area must roll a Dexterity
saving throw, taking 3d6 poison damage on a failure
or half as much on a success.
In addition, the blast poisons the area it struck
with toxic energy and nauseating fumes for the
duration. When a creature enters the affected area
for the first time on a turn or starts its turn there, it
must make a Constitution saving throw or take 2d8
poison damage and become poisoned for the
duration. If it succeeds, it takes half the damage.
A creature that is poisoned by this spell but is no
longer within the affected area can make a
Constitution saving throw at the end of each of its
turns. On a success, it is no longer poisoned.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 5th level or higher, the acid damage
increases by 1d8 for each slot level above 4th.


Unknown Spell 1001
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You create a long stream of flaming venom which
you wield like a whip. Make a melee spell attack
against a creature within your reach, which is
increased to 10 feet with this attack. On a hit, the
target takes 4d8 fire damage and it must make a
Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, it is
also poisoned until the start of your next turn. Until
the spell ends, you can make this attack again on
each of your turns as an action.  When a creature within 30 feet of you inflicts
poison damage or the poisoned condition on
another target, you can also make this attack as a
reaction against the poisoning creature. When you
make this attack as a reaction, the reach is increased
to 30 feet, and any remnants of the poison on the
creature’s person become caustic if you hit, causing
it to take an additional 2d10 acid damage.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 4th level or higher, the fire damage
increases by 1d8 for each slot level above 3rd.


Unknown Spell 1002
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: Self
Components: M (a weapon)
Duration: 1 minute
Once during the duration, you can grant youself
advantage on a saving throw. When you do so, the
spell ends.


Unknown Spell 1003
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
The subject regains 1 hit point, and at the start of
each of its turns until the spell ends, it regains 1
more hit point if its current hit point total is less
than half its hit point maximum.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the healing the
subject gains at the start of each turn increases by 1
hit point for every slot level above 1st.


Unknown Spell 1004
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 hour

Page 303
When casting this spell, choose up to seven
creatures within range (one of whom may be you).
For the duration, each creature regains 1 hit point at
the beginning of each of its turns.
This spell does not regenerate lost limbs, or heal
damage from thirst, starvation, or suffocation.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 8th level or higher, the number of hit
points a creature regains increases by 1 for each slot
level above 7th.


Unknown Spell 1005
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self
Components:  V, S, M (a snakeskin, which you
swallow during the casting of the spell)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You summon vipers which leap forth from your
mouth to attack your enemies. Choose three
unoccupied spaces that you can see within 30 feet.
Three giant poisonous snakes  under your control
leap from your mouth to land in each space.
Until the spell ends, on each of your turns, you
can summon up to three more giant poisonous
snakes from your mouth as a bonus action.
Giant poisonous snakes created by this spell are
considered fiends. They are immune to fire damage
and poison damage, and they can see normally in
darkness, both magical and nonmagical, to a
distance of 120 feet.
If you have six or more summoned snakes present
when your turn ends, the snakes begin to swallow
each other whole. At the end of your turn, half the
snakes vanish unless there are five or fewer of them.
For each snake that vanishes, one of the remaining
snakes gains temporary hit points equal to the hit
points of that vanished snake. No snake can gain
more than 10 temporary hit points in this way at a
time.
The snakes are friendly to you and your
companions. They act on your initiative,
immediately after your turn ends, but have their
own turns. For the duration of the spell, you can issue mental commands to the snakes (no action
required by you), and they obey any commands that
you issue to them. If you don't issue any commands
to them, they defend themselves from hostile
creatures, but otherwise take no actions.
Each snake vanishes when it drops to 0 hit points
or when the spell ends, leaving only an empty
snakeskin.
The spell ends early once you have summoned a
total of 24 snakes or if you choose to stop
concentrating on it. Until the spell ends, you cannot
speak, cast spells with verbal components, or
activate items that require speech.


Unknown Spell 1006
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 5 feet
Components:  V, M (a weapon)
Duration:  1 round
As part of the action used to cast this spell, you
must make a melee weapon attack against a
creature within range, otherwise the spell fails. On a
hit, the target suffers the attack's normal effects,
and divine light invested in your weapon fills you
with resolve. If the target forces you to make a
saving throw before the start of your next turn, the
target takes an additional 1d6 psychic damage, you
gain a bonus on the saving throw equal to the
psychic damage inflicted, and the spell ends.
The spell's damage increases when you reach
higher levels. At 5th level, the melee attack deals an
extra 1d6 radiant damage to the target, and the
psychic damage the target takes for forcing you to
make a saving throw increases to 2d6. Both damage
rolls increase by 1d6 at 11th level and 17th level.


Unknown Spell 1007
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 120 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a crystal vial worth at least
1,000 gp full of the pus of any magical disease)
Duration:  24 hours

Page 304
You choose up to five creatures within range, none
of whom can be more than 30 feet away from each
other. Each target must make a Wisdom saving. On
a failure, it is charmed by you until the spell ends or
until you or your companions do anything harmful
to it. A creature charmed by this spell regards you
as a friendly acquaintance, and it feels the need to
tell others you should be treated as a friend. It is
also compelled to touch any other creatures it sees
that are hostile to you.
When one of the initial targets becomes charmed
by this spell, the next two creatures it touches
before the spell ends must make the same Wisdom
saving throw, becoming charmed on a failure and
suffering the same effects.
A creature who is charmed after being touched by
one or more of the initial targets only forces the
next creature it touches to make the Wisdom saving
throw, instead of the next two creatures.
Creatures who become charmed by this spell after
being touched by a creature that was not one of the
initial targets do not force any creatures they touch
to make the saving throw. No more than 25
creatures can be charmed by a single casting of this
spell.


Unknown Spell 1008
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self
Components:  V, S
Duration:  1 minute
When casting this spell, you transform into the
likeness of a celestial or fiend, depending on your
faith.
If you worship a good-aligned god, then you have
the following qualities while transformed:
 You grow feathered wings that allow you to fly
at twice your normal speed
 You gain a +1 bonus to your AC
 You gain darkvision to 60 feet
 You gain resistance to acid, cold, and lightning
damage
 You gain immunity to disease
 You gain advantage on poison saving throws
 You gain resistance to bludgeoning, piercing
and slashing damage from nonmagical weapons
 You gain resistance to damage from spells
 You gain advantage on all ability checks and all
saving throws against spells.
If you worship an evil-aligned god, then you
have following qualities while transformed :
 You gain bat-like wings that allow you to fly at
your normal speed
 You gain a +1 bonus to your AC
 You gain a multiattack action with one
bite and two claw attacks. If your size is
Medium or larger, your bite deals 1d6
piercing damage, and your claws
deal 1d4 slashing damage. If your
size is small, then your bite deals
1d4 piercing damage, and your
claws deal 1d3 slashing damage.
These are considered melee
weapon attacks with which you
are proficient.

Page 305
 You gain darkvision to 60 feet
 You gain immunity to poison
 You gain resistance to acid, cold, lightning, and
fire damage
 You gain resistance to bludgeoning, piercing,
and slashing damage from nonmagical weapons
 You gain resistance to damage from spells
 You gain advantage on all ability checks and all
saving throws against spells.
If you do not worship a god of good or evil
alignment, you can choose either transformation.
“I once saw Qilu é Veladorn cast this
spell—it was the very definition of
sublime.”


Unknown Spell 1009
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S, M (a gem worth at least 200 gp)
Duration:  Instantaneous
The gemstone glows faintly in your hand. You may
imprint a message of up to 25 word into the gem, or
a short vision and choose a password. Until the
password is spoken, the gem will will not play the
message or vision. Treat the vision as a silent image
that is played from the gem. The spell or vision may
only be played from the stone once.


Unknown Spell 1010
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  S, M (a bell with no clapper)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 10 minutez
For the duration you can cast spells without using a
verbal component. This spell has no effect on any
other sound, but allows you to cast spells silently.


Unknown Spell 1011
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 5 ft.
Components:  V
Duration:  Instantaneous
You emit a powerful battle cry that hammers your
enemy, distracting it from a nearby ally. Choose a
creature within range that is adjacent to one of your
allies. That target must make a Wisdom saving
throw. If the target fails the saving throw, it takes
1d6 thunder damage and you can choose one ally
that is within 5 feet of the target. That ally can use
its reaction to move up to 10 feet without provoking
an opportunity attack from the target. The sound of
the battle cry can be heard up to 100 feet away. This
spell's damage increases when you reach higher
levels, dealing 2d6 thunder damage at 5th level, 3d6
at 11th level, and 4d6 at 17th level.


Unknown Spell 1012
Casting Time:  1 minute
Range: Self (360 ft. radius)
Components:  V, S, M (a blade carved of obsidian,
which shatters when the spell is cast)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You draw molten lava up through the ground,
which erupts to fill a sphere with a radius of 360
feet. The entire radius (even the sky above it and
the underground beneath it) immediately becomes
difficult terrain for the duration, and each creature
within that radius must make a Dexterity saving
throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 2d6
bludgeoning damage and 2d6 fire damage, and its
walking speed is reduced to 0 until the start of its
next turn. On a success, a creature takes half as
much damage and suffers no other effects. A
creature with full cover is still affected, but
automatically succeeds on its saving throw. You
take no damage from this spell, and automatically
succeed on saving throws against it.
Until the spell ends, if you can see some part of

Page 306
the area of the spell, you can use a bonus action on
each of your turns to force each creature in the area
to make another saving throw or suffer the above
effects. You cannot cast this spell if you are more
than 360 feet away from an area of solid ground at
least 10 feet wide, but once it is cast, it lasts for the
duration, even if you are out of range.
When a creature wearing metal armor fails its
saving throw against this effect, it takes 2d6
additional fire damage, and has disadvantage on
attack rolls and ability checks until the start of its
next turn (as if affected by the heat metal  spell).
Firenewts, earth-based elemental creatures (such
as gargoyles), or fire-based elemental creatures
(such as salamanders), do not take damage from
this spell. Instead, such a creature is healed,
regaining hit points equal to half the fire damage
inflicted. Only firenewts or creatures of the
elemental type can benefit from this effect.
The volcanic eruption damages objects in the area
and ignites flammable objects that aren't being
worn or carried. Structures in contact with the
ground in the area that take fire damage from this
effect take extra bludgeoning damage equal to half
the fire damage. If a structure drops to 0 hit points,
it collapses and potentially damages nearby
creatures, as described in the earthquake  spell. The
eruption can be heard up to 500 miles away.
This spell leaves its entire area a blackened ruin
incapable of supporting plant life for a full year.
After that time, however, the ground is more fertile
than it was before the spell was cast.
“A powerful planar mage of my
acquaintance, the Crowngold, late of
Ylraphon, claims that this spell not only
works perfectly well on the bottom of
the sea, but also in elemental planes
where molten earth does not flow
beneath the surface, such as the Planes
of Air and Water. In fact, she found it
useful in such places to quickly expand a
small mote of earth into a substantial
island of solid rock. But first one must
find some earth to stand on!”


Unknown Spell 1013
Casting Time:  1 bonus action
Range: Self
Components:  S, M (a ring of diamond and
obsidian worth 300 gp, which the spell consumes)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You invoke primal rage from within the earth itself,
sheathing yourself and your weapon in burning
magma and radiating wrath that scorches your foes.
Until the spell ends, you gain resistance to fire
damage and to non-magical bludgeoning, piercing,
and slashing damage, and your melee weapon
attacks inflict an additional 1d8 fire damage.
As a bonus action on each of your turns until the
spell ends, you can cause your volcanic rage to boil
over, forcing creatures within 5 feet of you to make
a Constitution saving throw. They take 2d6 fire
damage and 2d6 bludgeoning damage if they fail
the saving throw, or half as much on a success.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 7th level or higher, the fire damage
and bludgeoning damage you can inflict with a
bonus action increase by 1d6 for each slot level
above 6th.


Unknown Spell 1014
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 5 feet
Components:  V, M (a slashing weapon)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
As part of the action used to cast this spell, you
must make a melee attack with a weapon against
one creature within the spell's range, otherwise the
spell fails. The weapon attack ignores resistance to
slashing damage. On a hit, the target suffers the
attack's normal effects and takes an extra 6d8
slashing damage from the hit. On a miss, the spell
ends.
If the initial attack hits, the weapon retains its
enchantment for the duration. Until the spell ends,
the weapon ignores resistance to slashing damage,

Page 307
and once per turn, when you hit a creature with a
weapon attack, you can use a bonus action to cause
that creature to take an extra 6d8 slashing damage
from the hit.
In addition, while this spell is active (including
during the initial attack), if you attack a creature
that has at least one head with the weapon and roll
a 20 on the attack roll, you cut off one of the
creature's heads. The creature dies if it can't survive
without the lost head. A creature is immune to this
effect if it is immune to slashing damage, doesn't
have or need a head, has legendary actions, or the
DM decides that the creature is too big for its head
to be cut off with this weapon.


Unknown Spell 1015
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 300 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
When this spell is cast, a 20-foot radius sphere of
swirling air appears at a point you can see within
range. A creature caught in the area when the
vortex appears or starts its turn there must make a
Dexterity saving throw or take 2d6 bludgeoning
damage from the battering winds.
Thereafter, the spellcaster can use an action to
call a lightning bolt from the vortex. The lightning
bolt streaks out up to 120 feet toward a target you
can see within range. The creature must make a
Dexterity saving throw or take 4d6 lightning
damage or have as much on a successful save.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 8th level or higher, the bludgeoning
damage from the winds increases by 1d6, and you
can call one additional lightning bolt for each slot
level above 7th.


Unknown Spell 1016
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 50 feet  Components:  V, S, M (the flayed face of someone
killed by a banshee)
Duration:  Instantaneous
You howl with raw, soul-searing hate. Every
creature within range that is not undead or a
construct within you must make a successful
Constitution saving throw or drop to 0 hit points.
Any creature whose hit points are already at 0 must
make an immediate death saving throw. If the
saving throw is successful, it counts as one success.
However, if the saving throw fails, the creature dies.
“If ye are unfortunate enough to hear
this scream, ye will not likely forget it.”


Unknown Spell 1017
Casting Time:  1 minute
Range: 30 feet
Components:  V
Duration:  8 hours
When this spell is cast, you set up a magical
warning system. Choose any kind of area within
range that is an exit or entrance to an indoor or
underground area of any kind. The total size of the
entrance or exit chosen must fit with a 40-foot cube.
Until the spell ends, a wailing, whistling wind blows
towards you whenever a Tiny or larger creature
touches or enters the warded area.
You do not have to be in the area to receive the
knowledge this spell provides. The wailing wind will
seek you out as long as you are within 500 feet of
the target area. The wailing wind has a distinct
audible sound that can be heard by any creature,
though they do not know what it means unless they
are familiar with this spell.


Unknown Spell 1018
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S, M (a coffee bean)

Page 308
Duration:  Concentration, up to 8 hours
This spell allows you to temporarily ignore the
effects of exhaustion. For the duration, all levels of
exhaustion are ignored, but not removed. You do
not gain the benefits of a rest without actually
resting, but you do not need to sleep. When the
spell ends you must make a Constitution saving
throw. If you fail you gain one level of exhaustion.


Unknown Spell 1019
Casting Time:  1 bonus action
Range: Self
Components:  V, S
Duration:  1 round
For a brief moment, you treat the law of gravity as a
suggestion rather than a rule. Until the end of the
turn, you have a climbing speed equal to your
walking speed and you have advantage on Dexterity
(Acrobatics) and Strength (Athletics) checks that
involve movement. For the same duration, you can
move up, down, and across vertical surfaces while
leaving your hands free. This does not allow you to
move upside down along ceilings. If you are on a
vertical surface when you no longer have a climbing
speed, you immediately fall unless you have some
other means of remaining there.


Unknown Spell 1020
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 50 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
Choose a creature within range, which must make a
Charisma saving throw. On a failure, until the spell
ends, the creature must make a Wisdom saving
throw each time it tries to cast a spell that requires
material components. On a failure, the creature’s
spell fails. Spells that fail due to failing the Wisom
save for the wandbane still expend a spell slot or any
other resources those spells normally require, but
have no other effect.


Unknown Spell 1021
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self
Components:  V, S
Duration:  1 round
When casting this spell, you let out a battle cry and
charge toward your enemies. As part of the action
used to cast the spell, you can move up to your full
speed and make one melee weapon attack with
advantage. On a hit, the attack deals an extra d10
damage of the weapon's type.
In addition, if you hit with the attack, your foe
must succeed on a Strength saving throw or be
knocked prone.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 4th level or higher, you deal an extra
d10 damage on a successful attack for every two slot
levels above 2nd.


Unknown Spell 1022
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components:  V, S, M (dust of a crushed pearl)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 hour
You infuse a handful of dust with foretelling magic
and blow a cloud of it in an ally’s face for them to
breathe in, granting them a few seconds warning
whenever danger strikes. Choose one creature
besides you within range. For the duration, the
target cannot be surprised, and it gains a bonus on
all Dexterity checks for initiative equal to your
spellcasting ability modifier. It also gains advantage
on all Wisdom (Perception) checks to spot traps.
At Higher Levels. You can cast this spell using a
3rd level or higher spell slot. You can target one
other ally within range for each spell level above
3rd.

Page 309


Unknown Spell 1023
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self (half a mile)
Components:  V
Duration:  Instantaneous
You can speak 5 words which are magically
amplified so that every creature within a half a mile
can hear them. Deaf creatures cannot hear the
words. Sleeping creatures are automatically
awakened by the words. These words cannot be
used to perform an attack based on sound (a
banshee’s wail, for example). Although, incredibly
loud, these words do not damage nearby creatures.


Unknown Spell 1024
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a chisel)
Duration:  Instantaneous
You twist and warp stone. If this spell is cast on a
stone door, or a door in a stone frame, the door
opens and cannot be closed. If the target is a stone
wall, the next attack to that section of the wall will
deal double damage. If the target is a stone statue,
the statue becomes a leering grotesque.


Unknown Spell 1025
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S, M (dirt from the grave of a
ghost)
Duration:  Instantaneous
Your touch ages your victim, turning them into a
haggard shell of who they were. Make a melee spell
attack. If you hit your target ages 10d10 years. The
shock to the system is powerful, and the target must
make a Constitution saving throw or be knocked
unconscious. A victim that is aged more than 70
years must make a Constitution saving throw, dying if they fail. Victims of this spell will continue to age
normally, most dying within a few days or weeks.
Undead and constructs are immune to this spell.
Extraplanar creatures may age, but automatically
pass the Constitution saving throw. Dragons
automatically pass the Constitution saving throw
and can, at the DM’s discretion, become more
powerful because of it.


Unknown Spell 1026
Casting Time:  1 minute
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S, M (a sprinkling of rare sands
and powdered reagents worth at least 500 gp)
Duration:  Until dispelled or triggered
You create a mystical connection with a single
inanimate object you touch. When that object is
damaged, moved, or touched at any later time, you
are instantly aware of this fact. If another creature
physically touches the warded object, you receive a
mental image of the creature.
For purposes of divination spells (such as
scrying), you are considered to have first-hand
knowledge of the creature who triggered the effect
as if you had met.
This effect activates when the object is disturbed
for any reason, whether someone touches it or
pokes it with a pole, a cat walks upon it, or an
earthquake knocks it over.
This spell ends as soon as the effect is activated.
Because of its costly material components, most
spellcasters reserve this spell to protect valuable,
out-of-the-way items.
This spell is considered a magical trap. It can be
detected with an Intelligence (Arcana or
Investigation) check made against your spellcasting
DC, but it can only be dispelled magically. You can
designate a password that allows another creature
to handle the object without sounding the mental
alarm if you choose.

Page 310


Unknown Spell 1027
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 300 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You conjure a 5-foot radius by 80-foot high
cylinder-shaped vortex on a body of water, centred
at a point you can see within range. Any creature
that contacts the vortex must immediately make a
Dexterity saving throw or take 3d8 bludgeoning
damage from the high winds in the vortex. In
addition, if the creature is Medium sized or smaller,
it is sucked into the vortex and becomes restrained.
On a successful save, a creature takes half the
damage, and isn’t sucked into the vortex or
restrained.
A creature that starts its turn restrained within
the vortex takes 2d8 bludgeoning damage and is
drawn 10 feet higher. A creature that reaches the
top of the vortex is ejected from the waterspout and
thrown 3d20 feet up into the air. A creature thrown
from the vortex takes falling damage as normal.
Waterborne creatures that come within 10 feet of
the vortex must make a Dexterity saving
throw or be sucked into the vortex and suffer
its effects.
You can use a bonus action on each of
your turns to move the waterspout up to 30
feet and cause any creature that contacts
the vortex to make a Dexterity
saving throw or take the
vortex’s full damage and
suffer its effects. A
creature takes
half the damage on a successful save and doesn’t suffer the
vortex’s effects.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 8th level or higher, both the
bludgeoning damage for contacting the vortex and
for creatures restrained within increases by 1d8 for
every slot level above 7th.


Unknown Spell 1028
Casting Time:  1 reaction
Range: 30 feet
Components:  V
Duration:  Instantaneous
A favorite of assassin’s everywhere, this spell
transforms any liquid currently being imbibed
within range into a deadly poison instantly. The
victim drinking the liquid must make a Constitution
saving throw. They take 8d8 poison damage and are
poisoned until the start of your next turn if they fail.
If they succeed the liquid is not transformed and
the target is unaffected.
At Higher Levels. You may cast this spell using a
spell slot of 6th level or higher, it adds 1d8 poison
damage for every level above 5th.


Unknown Spell 1029
Casting Time:  1 minute
Range: Self (1 mile radius)
Components:  V, S, M (a scythe)
Duration:  Instantaneous
All nonmagical plants that are not creatures within
range die. They instantly rot, turning the area into a
disgusting morass. Magical plants and plant
creatures within range must make a Wisdom saving
throw, they take 4d6 necrotic damage if they fail.


Unknown Spell 1030
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 5 feet
Components:  V, S

Page 311
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
Your curse greatly weakens a creature in your
presence. Choose one ability score. One creature of
your choice within range makes a saving throw with
that ability score. On a failure, the target has
disadvantage on checks and saving throws with the
chosen ability score. In addition, the target has
disadvantage on attack rolls using the chosen ability
score, and deals only half damage with such attacks
if they are weapon attacks.
At the end of each of the target’s turns, it can
make a saving throw against the spell. It makes the
saving throw with the ability score you chose, but
the disadvantage inflicted by this spell does not
affect saving throws against it. On a successful save,
the spell ends.
This spell can also be ended with greater
restoration , or heal.


Unknown Spell 1031
Casting Time: 1 reaction, which you take when a
creature that started its turn within 30 feet of you
ends its turn more than 30 feet away from you
Range: Self
Components: S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You can jump with supernatural ability and run up
walls to pursue your opponent. Choose one creature
within 60 feet that has just ended its turn more
than 30 feet away from you, bit which started that
iturn within 30 feet of you. Until this spell ends, you
gain the ability to move up, down, and across
vertical surfaces and upside down along ceilings
(while leaving your hands free). You also gain a
climb speed equal to your walking speed, and your
jumping distance is doubled.
In addition, as part of the reaction used to cast
this spell, you can immediately fly a number of feet
equal to or less than your walking speed, ending
this movement in an empty space within 30 feet of
the creature. This space cannot be above the
creature, and this space cannot be farther away
from your original space than the creature is. Moreover, for the duration, you have resistance
against all damage from falling and immunity to
any damage taken from falling less than 100 feet.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the duration is
increased to 10 minutes. If the spell slot used is 3rd
level or higher, you gain a flying speed equal to your
walking speed for the duration.


Unknown Spell 1032
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self
Components:  V, S, M (a pair of perfectly
symmetrical, handmade gears worth at least 1000
gp)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You push some of the damage you take forward in
time, increasing your effectiveness or the short
term. For the duration of the spell, you take half
damage from all attacks that inflict hit point
damage. You must keep track of how much damage
you take while this spell is in effect.
Once the spell ends, you immediately take all the
damage you took while the spell was in effect again.
This damage cannot be reduced or avoided in any
way.


Unknown Spell 1033
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self
Components:  V, S, M (lump of charcoal and some
of the caster’s hair)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
A whip of flame extends from one of your hands.
The whip is a melee weapon with a reach of 10 feet,
with which you are considered proficient. It sheds
bright light in a 10-foot radius and dim light for an
additional 10 feet. As part of the action of casting
this spell, and again as an action on each of your
turns for the spell's duration, you can make a melee

Page 312
spell attack with the whip, dealing fire damage on a
hit equal to 3d4 + your spellcasting ability modifier.


Unknown Spell 1034
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self
Components:  V, S, M (a drop of blood and some
hair)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
A thin red line stretches from your palm, which you
wield as a whip. The whip counts as a magical
weapon with a reach of 10 feet, with which you are
considered proficient. As part of the action of
casting this spell, and again as an action on each of
your turns for the spell's duration, you can make a
melee spell attack. Any target struck takes 3d6
psychic damage, and must make a Constitution
saving throw. On a failed save, the victim has
disadvantage on attack rolls and ability checks until
the end of its next turn due to the intense pain.


Unknown Spell 1035
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
A whip of crackling black energy forms in your
hand. The whip counts as a magical weapon with a
reach of 10 feet with which you are proficient. As
part of the action of casting this spell, and again on
your turns for the spell’s duration you can make a
melee spell attack. A target struck takes 4d6
necrotic damage. Undead struck by the whip must
make a Wisdom save in addition to the damage. If
they fail they are frightened of you for 1 minute.
Undead frightened of you may repeat the Wisdom
saving throw at the end of their turn to end the
condition.


Unknown Spell 1036
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S, M (a lock of human hair
anointed with a drop of holy water and consecrated
on an altar of Beshaba)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
You conjure a spectral whip that sparkles with
crimson colored darkfire. As part of the action used
to cast the spell, and by using an action on each of
your turns, you can make a melee spell attack
against a creature of your choice within 10 feet. On
a hit, the creature takes 5d4 necrotic damage, and if
it is a living creature, it must make a Strength
saving throw. On a failed save, the creature drops
whatever it is holding as it is wracked with
excruciating pain.
Alternatively, you can lash out with the whip and
make a melee spell attack against up to three
creatures that are within 10 feet of you and who are
adjacent to each other. Make one melee spell attack
and compare the result to each target’s AC. On a
hit, the creature takes 2d4 necrotic damage, and if it
is a living creature, it must make a Strength saving
throw. On a failed save, the creature drops whatever
it is holding due to the excruciating pain.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 7th level or higher, the necrotic
damage increases by 2d4 against a single target or
1d4 against multiple targets for every two slot levels
above 5th.


Unknown Spell 1037
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 10 minutes
You create an immobile curtain of snapping,
serpent-fanged jaws shaped of magical force. The
barrier appears within range, standing on a solid
surface, and lasts for the duration. You choose to

Page 313
make the barrier up to 60 feet long, 10 feet high, and
5 feet thick or a circle that has a 20-foot diameter
and is up to 20 feet high and 5 feet thick. The
barrier blocks line of sight.
When the barrier appears, each creature within
its area must make a Dexterity saving throw. On a
failed save a creature takes 8d6 piercing damage, or
half as much damage on a successful save (rounding
up).
The barrier is difficult terrain. Furthermore, the
first time a creature enters the barrier on a turn, or
ends its turn there, the creature must make a
Dexterity saving throw. It takes 8d6 force damage
on a failed save, or half as much damage on a
successful one (rounding up).
You can move through or remain within your
own whirl of fangs  without taking damage.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 7th level of higher, both types of
damage increase by 1d6 for each slot level above the
6th.
“This spell was created either by the yuan-ti or by
their legendary progenitors, the ancient sarrukh.
It is popular among the most powerful yuan-ti
spellcasters, who ‘wear’ the effect as a sort of
immobile cloak when fighting formidable foes.”


Unknown Spell 1038
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 60-foot line
Components:  V, S, M (a bladed weapon)
Duration:  Instantaneous
You throw the weapon in your hand, which is then
animated to strike on its own, attacking creatures in
a line 60 feet long and 5 feet wide emanating from
you. Choose up to four creatures you can see within
the line. Make a melee spell attack against each
target. On a hit, a target takes 3d8 magical damage
of the same type that the weapon would inflict.
After these attacks, the weapon remains floating
in mid-air in a space of your choice that you can see within 5 feet of whichever one of your chosen
targets was farthest away from you, whether you hit
that target or not.
After this spell is cast, until the end of your next
turn, if the weapon is still on the same plane of
existence as you, you can summon that weapon as a
bonus action on your turn, causing it to teleport
instantly to your hand.


Unknown Spell 1039
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 10 minutes
You touch a creature and imbue it with the ability
to wield one set of tools with which you are already
proficient. For the duration, the target can always
add its proficiency bonus to any ability checks it
makes with the chosen set of tools, whether it is
actually proficient or not.
Alternatively, if you choose yourself as a target
while touching a creature that is proficient with a
set of tools that you aren’t proficient with, you gain
proficiency with the chosen set of tools for the
duration.


Unknown Spell 1040
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 120 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  12 hours
When this spell is cast, choose six creatures. For the
duration, you and the selected creatures double
your overland travelling speeds.
This spell has no effect on the speed of creatures
during combat.


Unknown Spell 1041
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self

Page 314
Components:  V, S, M (a magnet)
Duration:  24 hours
While casting this spell you choose a compass
direction (“north” or “southeast” for example).
While you are walking in that direction a pleasant
tune plays softly in your ear. The tune isn’t
distracting, and stops if you walk in any other
direction. You must choose a compass direction;
you cannot choose a landmark or a specific
individual. Until this spell ends, you cannot become
lost except by magical means, and you have
advantage on saving throws against becoming
charmed or frightened.


Unknown Spell 1042
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self (20-foot radius)
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Instantaneous
You and every creature within range are launched
into the air by a powerful burst of wind. You cannot
avoid being launched into the air, but other
creatures can make a Strength saving throw to stay
on the ground. Creatures that fail the Strength
saving throw are sent 70 feet into the air, and are
likely to fall immediately after and take falling
damage unless they have another means of staying
aloft. If a ceiling prevents a creature affected by this
spell from reaching the maximum height, it takes
1d6 bludgeoning damage for every 10 feet it traveled
up before hitting the ceiling up.
As part of the action of casting this spell, a druid
can also use the Wild Shape feature (it is usually
used to transform into a flying creature).


Unknown Spell 1043
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self (30-foot radius)
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute When this spell is cast, you summon the winds
around you to improve the accuracy of your allies’
ranged weapon attacks. Each ally within range has
advantage on ranged weapon attacks for the
duration.


Unknown Spell 1044
Casting Time:  1 hour
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S, M (a feather from an angel,
which the spell consumes)
Duration:  Instantaneous
The recipient of this spell grows a pair of
magnificent wings. They gain fly speed equal to
their walking speed. The wings are often angelic
looking, but may take any form the recipient
chooses. Armor and clothing worn by the recipient
when this spell is cast will be destroyed if they
interfere with the growth of the wings. This spell
only effects willing creatures.


Unknown Spell 1045
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V S
Duration: Instantaneous
Choose one creature within range, or choose two
creatures within range that are within 5 feet of each
other. A target must succeed on a Wisdom saving
throw or it takes 1d4 psychic damage and it can't
take reactions until the start of its next turn.
The spell's damage increases by 1d4 when you
reach 5th level (2d4), 11th level (3d4), and 17th level
(4d4).


Unknown Spell 1046
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Instantaneous

Page 315
Your touch withers flesh and bone. Make a melee
spell attack against a creature within your reach. On
a hit, the creature takes 10d6 necrotic damage and
must make a Constitution saving throw. On a failed
save, the creature suffers two levels of exhaustion.
On a successful save, the creature suffers one level
of exhaustion instead.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 8th level or higher, the damage
increases by 1d6 for every slot level above 7th.


Unknown Spell 1047
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (a bit of wolf fur and a
canine tooth)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Your right hand turns into a powerful set of wolf
jaws. For the duration, when you take the Attack
action you can make a melee weapon attack against
a creature within 5 feet with the wolf jaws. On a hit,
the creature takes 2d6 piercing damage. If you have
the Extra Attack feature or another ability that
allows you to make extra attacks, you can make
multiple attacks using the wolf jaws.
You can choose to end the transformation using a
bonus action, and when doing so, you can choose to
eliminate the damage inflicted from the last attack
using the jaws. While the transformation is in
effect, you can’t perform the somatic components of
spells with the transformed hand.


Unknown Spell 1048
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self (30 foot cube)
Components:  V, S, M (an iron rod)
Duration:  Instantaneous
A 30 foot cube of energy, centered on you, snaps
into existence, creating an area of perfect law
around you. Every creature with a chaotic or neutral
alignment within the cube must make Dexterity saving throw. Chaotic creatures take 8d8 force
damage and are stunned until the beginning of your
next turn on a failed saving throw. They take half
damage and sre not stunned on a successful one.
Nuetral creatures take 6d8 force damage on a failed
save and half as much on a successful one.
At Higher Levels.  You may cast this spell using a
5th level or higher spell slot. You do an extra 1d8
damage for each spell level above 4th.


Unknown Spell 1049
Casting Time:  1 action
Components:  V, S
Range: 90 feet
Duration:  Concentration, up to 10 minutes
Your victim must make a Constitution saving throw.
On a failed save, the creature collapses in pain. Boils
and blisters appear all over its skin and then pop,
covering it with vile fluids as its eyes fill with blood,
causing the victim to be paralyzed and blinded until
the spell ends.
The victim can attempt a Constitution saving
throw at the end of each of its turns. If it succeeds,
the spell ends. Even after the spell ends, the victim
has disadvantage on attack rolls and ability checks
until it finishes a short or long rest.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 6th level or higher, the duration
increases to concentration, up to 1 hour for a 6th or
7th level spell slot, or concentration, up to 1 day for
an 8th level or higher spell slot.


Unknown Spell 1050
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S
Duration:  1 round
Make a melee spell attack against a target within 5
feet of you. On a hit, the target starts to shake
uncontrollably and must make a Constitution save
at the start of its next turn. On a failure, it cannot

Page 316
take actions until after the end of that turn. This
spell has no effect on constructs or undead. Once a
creature has made a saving throw against this spell
(whether it succeeds or fails), it becomes immune
to the effects of this spell for 24 hours.


Unknown Spell 1051
Casting Time:  1 bonus action
Range: Self
Components:  V, S
Duration:  1 round
Your hands and any weapons you hold become
skeletal and insubstantial and can easily pass
through armor. Until the end of your next turn, you
gain advantage on melee weapon attacks against
creatures wearing armor or using shields.


Unknown Spell 1052
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components:  V, S, M (a whip)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
Choose a target you can see within range. The
chosen creature must make a Wisdom saving throw
or fall to the ground incapacitated, while writhing
in pain. On a successful save, the spell ends.
A creature that starts its turn incapacitated by
this spell must make a Wisdom saving throw as its
mind is flooded with the thoughts of all its failures.
On a failed save, the creature remains incapacitated.
However, if the creature fails its saving throw a total
of three times before making a successful save, it
dies in agony overwhelmed by the compounding
pressure of all its failures.


Unknown Spell 1053
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S, M (a scale from a xorn's hide)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute You or a creature you touch can travel through the
earth itself without leaving any mark of passage.
The target gains a burrow speed equal to its walking
speed. In addition, when burrowing through
nonmagical, unworked earth and stone, the target
leaves its hands free and doesn't disturb the
material it moves through. The recipient can extend
the magical aura of this spell to bring any object or
creature it is carrying or grappling as it burrows.
The target enjoys no special protections from this
effect except for the cover of the stone or earth
around it.
If this spell or its effects end on the target or any
other object or creature placed within stone or
earth by means of this spell, you or any such object
or creature are expelled from the earth, moving at
60 feet per round towards the nearest open space
large enough to fit into comfortably and taking 6d6
bludgeoning damage upon exiting into that space.
“One of the very few spells starting with
the letter X!”


Unknown Spell 1054
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Instantaneous
Make a ranged spell attack against a target within
range. If the attack hits, the target takes 5d4
necrotic damage and its speed is reduced by half
until the end of your next turn.
As part of the same action used to cast this spell,
before you make the ranged spell attack, you may
choose to inflict necrotic damage equal to 1d4 plus
your spellcasting ability modifier on a willing ally
within 5 feet of you. This damage cannot be reduced
or prevented in any way. If you inflict this damage
on an ally, you gain advantage on the ranged spell
attack roll against your main target. In addition, if
the ranged spell attack hits, your target takes
additional poison damage equal to the necrotic

Page 317
damage you dealt to your ally.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the necrotic
damage you inflict on your target and your ally both
increase by 1d4 for each slot level above 1st.
“This would be the most useful of combat spells for its
level, I believe, were it not for the fact that the chosen
comrade must be willing to accept harm. It is still
highly potent if you surround yourself with allies who
have the moral courage to accept what must be done in
service of a greater goal.”
“It is the squeamishness Mordenkainen
betrays here that will doom his absurd
mission to maintain ‘balance.’
”Any minion unwilling to pay the price
of victory marks itself deserving of
torments far worse than a 1st-level like
your glorious sacrifice  can provide.”
“The lich Acererak seems to believe that not
surrendering myself to selfish ambition shows I lack
resolve. He also seems to think I can’t see his notes.


Unknown Spell 1055
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self
Components:  V, S, M (a piece of amber worth at
least 500 gp, which the spell consumes)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 1 minute
Created by a mage that was paranoid that someone
was always trying to control her mind, this spell
forms a bubble of amber energy that covers your head. For the duration, you are immune to all
enchantment spells and any ability that mimics an
enchantment spell. However, you have
disadvantage on any saving throw versus any spell
from the Evocation school.


Unknown Spell 1056
Casting Time:  1 bonus action
Range: Self
Components:  V, S
Duration:  Concentration, up to 10 minutes
You invoke a divine shield that protects you while
you close the distance with a chosen opponent.
Choose one hostile creature within 120 feet. Until
the spell ends, opportunity attack rolls made
against you by creatures besides your chosen target
have disadvantage. In addition, you can move
through the space of any creature that is not your
chosen target as if it were an ally. At the end of each
turn, you must be closer to the target than you were
when you started moving, or the spell ends.
The spell also ends if the creature is stunned or
incapacitated by any means.


Unknown Spell 1057
Casting Time:  10 minutes
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S
Duration:  1 minute
You touch a subject and choose one of the following
creature types: aberration, celestial, dragon,
elemental, fey, fiend, or undead. Until the spell
ends, the subject has advantage on melee attack
rolls against creatures of the chosen type and
inflicts 1d10 additional radiant damage when it hits
such a creature.


Unknown Spell 1058
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: 60 feet

Page 318
Components:  V, S
Duration:  1 round
You name your foe an enemy of the faith,
searing it with divine power that heals any who
strike it. Choose one creature within range,
which must make a Charisma saving throw,
taking 4d6 radiant damage on a failure or half
as much damage on a success. If the target
fails, the next time an ally hits that target with
an attack roll before the spell ends, that ally
regains a number of hit points equal to 1d8 plus
your spellcasting ability modifier. The spell
ends at the end of your next turn after you cast
it.
At Higher Levels.  When you cast this spell
using a spell slot of 3rd level of higher, you can
choose one additional creature within range to
make the Charisma saving throw for each slot
level above 2nd.


Unknown Spell 1059
Casting Time:  1 action
Range: Self (30-foot radius)
Components:  V, S, M (holly berries that must
be sprinkled about the area)
Duration:  Concentration, up to 24 hours
You fill a 30-foot radius sphere around yourself
area with the essence of the Feywild,
strengthening its bonds to the natural world.
The spell is centered on you when it is cast, but
its area does not move with you. Within the
area of the spell, whenever an aberration, fiend,
and or undead creature makes an attack roll or
a saving throw before the spell ends, it must
roll a d4 and subtract the number rolled from
the attack roll or saving throw. In the same
area, whenever a beast, plant, or fey creature
makes an attack roll or a saving throw before
the spell ends, rolls a d4 and adds the number
rolled to the attack roll or saving throw.
If you cast zone of natural purity  in the same
location every day for a year, the spell becomes
permanent.

Page 319
Index of Spells (by Page)
Living Guildpact of Ravnica

Page 320

Page 321

Page 322

Page 323

Page 324

Page 325

“
e
,—
“
,
e
e
e
e
e
e
e,
e
e
,
e
e
,
e
e
e
e
e
.
e
e
e
!
e
e
e
e
e
e
,
e
e
e
e
e
e.
“
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
,
e
e
e
e
E
e
’
e
,
e
e
:
“
e
e
e
e.
“
e
e
e
e
.
e
e
e
e
e
:
e
e
ee
e
,
e
e
e
e
,
e
e
e
e
e
e
,
e
e
e
e
e
ee
.
“
e,
,
e
e
e
e
!
“
,
e
e.”
“
E
.”