=== SPELL START ===
Name: KOBOLD’S FURY
Level: 1
School: Transmutation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (a kobold scale)
Duration: 1 round
Description:
Your touch infuses the rage of a threatened kobold into
the target. The target has advantage on melee weapon
attacks until the end of its next turn. In addition, its next
successful melee weapon attack against a creature larger
than itself does an additional 2d8 damage.
2nd-level divination (ritual) (dragon)
Casting Time: 1 minute
Range: 120 feet
Components: V, S, M (treasure worth at least 500 gp,
which is not consumed in casting)
Duration: 24 hours
You set up a magical boundary around your lair. The
boundary can’t exceed the dimensions of a 100-foot cube,
but within that maximum, you can shape it as you like—
to follow the walls of a building or cave, for example.
While the spell lasts, you instantly become aware of any
Tiny or larger creature that enters the enclosed area. You
know the creature’s type but nothing else about it. You are
also aware when creatures leave
the area.
This awareness is enough to wake you
from sleep, and you receive the knowledge as long as
you’re on the same plane of existence as your lair.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, add 50 feet to the
maximum dimensions of the cube and add 12 hours to
the spell’s duration for each slot level above 2nd.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: LEGEND KILLER
Level: 7
School: Divination
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S, M (a silver scroll describing the
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Description:
spell’s target worth at least 1,000 gp, which the spell
consumes)
You tap into the life force of a creature that is capable of
performing legendary actions. When you cast the spell,
the target must make a successful Constitution saving
throw or lose the ability to take legendary actions for the
spell’s duration. A creature can’t use legendary resistance
to automatically succeed on the saving throw against
this spell. An affected creature can repeat the saving
throw at the end of each of its turns, regaining 1
legendary action on a successful save. The target
continues repeating the saving throw until the
spell ends or it regains all its legendary actions.
MITHRAL DRAGON’S MIGHT
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: MITHRAL DRAGON’S MIGHT
Level: 6
School: Transmutation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1
Description:
minute
You take on some of the physical characteristics and
abilities of the mithral dragon, growing protective scales,
wings, and claws. Until the spell ends, your AC can’t be
lower than 16, regardless of what armor you are wearing.
You can take two actions on your turn to attack with your
claws, dealing 1d6 slashing damage on a hit. You have
resistance to to acid and thunder damage. Up to three
times while the spell is active, as an action, you can breathe
a 20-foot cone of metal shards, dealing 6d8 slashing
damage to all creatures in the cone. A creature that
succeeds on a Dexterity saving throw takes half as much
damage from your breath weapon. Finally, the wings grant
you a flying speed of 40 feet.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: OVERWHELMING GREED
Level: 4
School: Enchantment
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S, M (a gold piece)
Duration: 1 hour
Description:
You fill the target with a dragon’s greed for wealth. The
target must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or be
overcome with greed, coveting any coins, jewelry, or art
objects it can see that have a value of at least 1 gold piece,
as well as jealously guarding any wealth it already owns.
The target fixates on the most valuable-looking item or
items, or the largest concentration of valuables in sight.
It will not willingly let the wealth out of its sight. If the
target sees an opportunity, it will take the valuables it has
fixated on, gaining them by whatever means necessary.
If doing so provokes a situation where it takes damage
or is otherwise harmed, the affected creature can make
another Wisdom saving throw to end the effect. If the
creature fails the save, it will continue to try to acquire the
wealth, fighting back if necessary.
Ending the Effect. If the affected creature ends its turn in
an area where it cannot see any obviously valuable objects
to covet, nor any creatures that might conceivably attempt
to take its own property (a horse, for example, would
not be considered such a creature), then it can make
another Wisdom saving throw. A successful save ends the
spell, and the creature recognizes its feelings of greed as
magically induced.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell
slot of 5th level or higher, you can affect one additional
creature for each slot level above 4th.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: PHANTOM DRAGON
Level: 3
School: Illusion
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (a piece of dragon egg shell)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
Description:
You tap your dragon magic to make an ally appear as a
draconic beast. The target of the spell appears to be a
dragon of size Large or smaller. When seeing this illusion,
observers make a Wisdom saving throw to see through it.
You can use an action to make the illusory dragon seem
ferocious. Choose one creature within 30 feet of the
illusory dragon to make a Wisdom saving throw. If it fails,
the creature is frightened. The creature remains frightened
until it uses an action to make a successful Wisdom saving
throw or the spell’s duration expires.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell
slot of 4th level or higher, increase the number of targets
the illusion can affect by one for each slot level above 3rd.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: PUFF OF SMOKE
Level: cantrip
School: Evocation
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
Description:
By harnessing the elemental power of fire, you warp
nearby air into obscuring smoke. One creature you can
see within range must make a Dexterity saving throw. If
it fails, the creature is blinded until the start of your next
turn. Puff of smoke has no effect on creatures that have
tremorsense or blindsight.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: RAID THE LAIR
Level: 4
School: Abjuration
Casting Time: 10 minutes
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (a piece of the dragon whose lair
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
Description:
you are raiding)
You create an invisible circle of protective energy centered
on yourself with a radius of 10 feet. This field moves with
you. The caster and all allies within the energy field are
protected against dragons’ lair actions.
• Attack rolls resulting directly from lair actions are
made with disadvantage.
• Saving throws resulting directly from lair actions are
made with advantage, and damage done by these lair
actions is halved.
• Lair actions occur on an initiative count 10 lower than
normal.
The caster has advantage on Constitution saving throws to
maintain concentration on this spell.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: SCALE ROT
Level: 4
School: Necromancy
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (a piece of rotten meat)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Description:
You summon death and decay to plague your enemies.
For dragons, this act often takes the form of attacking a
foe’s armor and scales, as a way of weakening an enemy
dragon and leaving it plagued by self-doubt and fear. (This
enchantment is useful against any armored creature, not
just dragons.)
One creature of your choice within range that has natural
armor must make a Constitution saving throw. If it fails,
attacks against that creature’s Armor Class are made
with advantage, and the creature can’t regain hit points
through any means while the spell remains in effect. An
affected creature can end the spell by making a successful
Constitution saving throw, which also makes the creature
immune to further castings of scale rot for 24 hours.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 5th level or higher, the number of affected
targets increases by one for each slot level above 4th.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: SCALY HIDE
Level: 4
School: Transmutation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (a dragon scale of the appropriate
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
Description:
color)
A creature you touch grows a protective layer of scales
that resembles that of a dragon. Until the spell ends,
the target’s AC can’t be lower than 16, regardless of the
type of armor it is wearing. Additionally, the target gains
resistance to either acid, cold, fire, lightning, or poison
damage for the duration of the spell.
SHADE
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: SHADE
Level: 2
School: Abjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
Description:
You create a magical screen across your eyes. While the
screen remains, you are immune to blindness caused by
visible effects, such as color spray. The spell doesn’t alleviate
blindness that’s already been inflicted on you. If you
normally suffer penalties on attacks or ability checks while
in sunlight, those penalties don’t apply while you’re under
the effect of this spell.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 3rd level or higher, the duration of the spell
increases by 10 minutes for each slot level above 2nd.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: THUNDER BOLT
Level: cantrip
School: Evocation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
Description:
You cast a knot of thunder at one enemy. Make a ranged
spell attack against the target. If it hits, the target takes 1d8
thunder damage and can’t use reactions until the start of
your next turn.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: THUNDERSTORM
Level: 5
School: Transmutation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (a piece of lightning-fused glass)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
Description:
You touch a willing creature, and it becomes surrounded
by a roiling storm cloud 30 feet in diameter, erupting with
(harmless) thunder and lightning. The creature gains a
flying speed of 60 feet. The cloud heavily obscures the
creature inside it from view, though it is transparent to the
creature itself.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: TORRENT OF FIRE
Level: 4
School: Conjuration
Casting Time: 1 round
Range: Self (60-foot cone)
Components: V, S, M (a piece of obsidian)
Duration: Instantaneous
Description:
You harness the power of fire contained in ley lines with
this spell. You create a 60-foot cone of flame. Creatures
in the cone take 6d6 fire damage, or half as much damage
with a successful Dexterity saving throw. You can then
flow along the flames, reappearing anywhere inside the
cone’s area. This repositioning doesn’t count as movement
and doesn’t trigger opportunity attacks.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: TREASURE CHASM
Level: 2
School: Enchantment
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 100 feet
Components: V, S, M (a gold coin)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Description:
You cause the glint of a golden coin to haze over the vision
of one creature in range. The target creature must make
a Wisdom saving throw. If it fails, it sees a gorge, trench,
or other hole in the ground, at a spot within range chosen
by you, which is filled with gold and treasure. On its next
turn, the creature must move toward that spot. When it
reaches the spot, it becomes incapacitated, as it devotes
all its attention to scooping imaginary treasure into its
pockets or a pouch.
An affected creature can repeat the saving throw at the
end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a
success. The effect also ends if the creature takes damage
from you or one of your allies.
Creatures with the dragon type have disadvantage on the
initial saving throw but have advantage on saving throws
against this spell made after reaching the designated spot.
WAFT
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: WAFT
Level: 1
School: Transmutation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (a topaz worth at least 10 gp)
Duration: 1 round
Description:
This spell was first invented by dragon parents to assist
their offspring when learning to fly. You gain a flying
speed of 60 feet for 1 round. At the start of your next turn,
you float rapidly down and land gently on a solid surface
beneath you.
Wizards practice the subtle magic of pulling power from
thin air and shaping it to fit their needs. Sorcerers tame
the chaotic power within themselves, releasing it in barely
controlled gouts of magical eruptions. Wizards who
walk the path between these two diverse means of using
magic are called dragon mages, and they meld the order
of wizardry with the chaos of elemental mastery to grant
themselves special powers.
Dragon mages manifest their magic in a variety of styles,
as diverse as the kinds of dragons and the types of magic
that populate the worlds. Kobolds serving as councilors to
great wyrms are taught by their masters to harness their
innate draconic nature through the use of more traditional
spells. A wild-eyed human, oozing sorcerous magic thanks
to an ancient draconic ancestor, might find a kindly wizard
to help her focus her power. Special legions of dragonborn
troops train with a master dragon mage, learning to better
defend their homeland from invaders.
How to Start: If you’re a wizard who wants to become
a dragon mage, you make that decision upon reaching
2nd level, when you are also entitled to choose an arcane
tradition. If you decide to follow the path of the dragon
mage exclusively, you can forego the selection of an
arcane tradition and gain the features of the dragon mage
specialty instead.
You can also pursue the dragon mage specialty in
conjunction with one of the standard arcane traditions.
If you choose to do this, you gain the Savant feature of
your chosen school in addition to Dragon Magic Savant
(described below). Also at 2nd level, you choose whether
to gain Invoke Dragon Mask (see below) or the 2nd-level
feature of your chosen school. Thereafter, at 6th, 10th, and
14th level, you choose between the lowest-level features
still available. For instance, an enchanter might select
Hypnotic Gaze at 2nd level and Invoke Dragon Mask at
6th level, followed by either Instinctive Charm or Invoke
Dragon Heart at 10th level.
Beginning when you take up this specialty at 2nd level, the
gold and time you must spend to copy a dragon magic spell
into your spellbook is halved.
Starting at 2nd level, you can invoke a magic dragon mask.
You use a bonus action and expend a spell slot to invoke
the mask, which lasts for 3 rounds for each level of the
expended spell slot. The dragon mask remains as long as
you are not incapacitated, until you use a bonus action to
dismiss or replace it, or until the duration expires. The mask
is a translucent magical force, in the form of a dragon’s
head, which covers your face. Your face is still visible
through the mask, and the mask does not hinder vision.
While you wear your dragon mask, you receive the
following benefits and drawbacks:
• You have a bonus to your AC equal to your Intelligence
modifier (minimum of +1).
• You gain a bite attack. As an action, make a melee spell
attack against one adjacent target. On a hit, the target
takes piercing damage equal to 1d8 + your Intelligence
modifier. This attack counts as magical for the purpose
of overcoming a target’s immunity or resistance to
piecing damage.
• You have advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks
and Charisma (Intimidation) checks.
• Attack rolls for any ranged or melee attack spells
you cast while wearing the mask are made with
disadvantage, and saving throws against spells you cast
while wearing the mask are made with advantage.
• As a bonus action, you can expend an additional spell
slot to augment the damage of your next dragon mask
bite attack. The damage increases by 1d8 for each level
of the expended spell slot, and you have advantage on
the attack roll.
Starting at 6th level, you can invoke a magic dragon heart.
You use a bonus action and expend a spell slot to invoke
the heart, which lasts for 3 rounds for each level of the
expended spell slot. The dragon heart remains as long as
you are not incapacitated, until you use a bonus action
to dismiss or replace it, or until the duration expires.
The heart is a translucent magical force, in the form of a
beating heart, which covers your chest. Your body is still
visible through the heart.
While you wear your dragon heart, you receive the
following benefits:
• You have a bonus to Wisdom and Charisma saving
throws equal to your Intelligence modifier (minimum
of +1).
• You gain temporary hit points equal to twice your
wizard level. These temporary hit points are lost when
your heart is no longer active.
• You gain a breath weapon attack. You can use an action
to shoot a 30-foot-long, 5-foot-wide line of energy
(dealing your choice of acid, cold, fire, or lightning
damage) from your dragon heart in a direction
you choose. Each creature in the line must make a
successful Dexterity saving throw or take 4d6 damage
of the chosen type. The damage type cannot be changed
while your current dragon heart is active.
• As a bonus action, you can expend an additional spell
slot to augment the damage of your next dragon heart
breath weapon attack. The damage increases by 2d6
for each level of the expended spell slot, and you can
add 10 feet of length to the line for each level of the
expended spell slot.
Starting at 10th level, you can invoke a set of magical
dragon wings. You use a bonus action and spend a spell
slot to invoke the dragon wings, which last for 2 rounds
per level of the spent spell slot. The dragon wings remain
as long as you are not incapacitated, until the duration
ends, or until they are dismissed or replaced by using a
bonus action.
While you wear your dragon wings, you receive the
following benefits:
• Your speed increases by 10 feet, and you gain a flying
speed equal to your walking speed.
• You have resistance to bludgeoning, piercing, and
slashing damage from nonmagical attacks.
• You have advantage on any melee or ranged spell
attack rolls.
• As a bonus action, you can spend an additional
spell slot to augment your wings. Until the start
of your next turn, you can add 5 feet of additional
speed for each level of the expended spell slot spent.
Additionally, you can choose one creature within 10
feet of you for each level of the expended spell slot,
and ranged attacks against those creatures are made
with disadvantage.
Starting at 14th level, you can invoke a magic dragon tail.
You use a bonus action and expend a spell slot to invoke
the tail, which lasts for 1 round per level of the
spent spell slot. The dragon tail remains as
long as you are not incapacitated, until you
use a bonus action to dismiss or replace it,
or until the duration expires.The dragon
tail is a translucent magical force, in the
form of a 15-foot-long appendage capable of
striking with great impact.
While you wear your dragon tail, you
receive the following benefits.
• You are immune to the grappled
condition.
• You are have proficiency with
Strength and Dexterity
saving throws and any ability
checks using Strength.
In addition, you can use
your Intelligence modifier
instead of the normal
modifier for those saving
throws and checks.
• You gain a tail slam attack. As an action, you make a
separate melee spell attack against each target within
15 feet of you. On a hit, the target takes bludgeoning
damage equal to 3d10 + your Intelligence modifier.
A creature hit by this attack is pushed up to 10 feet
away from you and knocked prone unless it succeeds
on a Strength saving throw against your spell save
DC. This attack counts as magical for the purpose
of overcoming a target’s immunity or resistance to
bludgeoning damage.
• As a reaction, you can make a tail slam attack against a
creature that moves to within 15 feet of your tail.
• As a bonus action, you can spend an additional spell
slot to augment your dragon tail. Until the start of
your next turn, your dragon tail’s slam attack damage
increases by 1d10 per level of the spell slot spent. In
addition, you heal yourself for 3 hit points per level of
the spell slot spent.
When the elves first developed their magic long ago, the
spells they learned to use were all cast as rituals. Over
time, researchers who came later discovered how to cast
most spells more quickly and with greater potency—at the
expense of sapping their energy and leaving them in need
of recuperation.
Some of the original elven rituals are still being taught
and used today—and just as in the distant past, they can
be cast only as rituals. That aspect of their nature sets them
apart from all other spells, because it means that anyone
who can cast one of these spells can do so repeatedly,
without needing to draw on enough of their inner power
to deplete their magical ability.
Ritual Focus. Another quality unique to elven ritual
magic is the ability of the caster to call upon inner reserves
and expend extra effort to improve or enhance the effect
Elven Ritual Magic
RITUAL CASTER OR NOT?
Elven ritual magic can be incorporated into the game in
one of two ways, depending mainly on whether the GM
uses the rules for feats. If so, then it might be necessary
for a character to have the Ritual Caster feat before any
of these spells can be employed. If not, then—unless the
GM decides otherwise—a character can cast any of these
spells as normal, provided that they appear on his or her
spell list.
of an elven ritual spell. This extra effort is represented by
the caster’s ritual focus. Each of the  ends
with a paragraph that explains the effect of expending the
ritual focus on the casting of that spell.
Unlike a normal spellcasting focus, a ritual focus is not
an object; it’s a state of mind. And once this mental energy
has been expended, a caster’s ritual focus can’t be used
again until he or she finishes a short or long rest.
Most elven ritual spells are usable by more than one class.
All of them, not surprisingly, are wizard spells, but a
relative few can also be cast by sorcerers or warlocks.
Extract essence (transmutation)
Guest of honor (enchantment)
Shadows brought to light (divination)
Celebration (enchantment)
Shadows brought to light (divination)
Shadowy retribution (necromancy)
Encroaching shadows (illusion)
Bloom (conjuration)
Desolation (necromancy)
Afflict line (necromancy)
Extract essence (transmutation)
Clearing the field (transmutation)
Vine trestle (conjuration)
Song of the forest (transmutation)
Bloom (conjuration)
Desolation (necromancy)
Shadows brought to light (divination)
Clearing the field (transmutation)
Vine trestle (conjuration)
Song of the forest (transmutation)
Shadowy retribution (necromancy)
Encroaching shadows (illusion)
Celebration (enchantment)
Extract essence (transmutation)
Shadows brought to light (divination)
Shadowy retribution (necromancy)
Extract essence (transmutation)
Guest of honor (enchantment)

Clearing the field (transmutation)
Shadows brought to light (divination)
Vine trestle (conjuration)
Song of the forest (transmutation)
Shadowy retribution (necromancy)
Encroaching shadows (illusion)
Celebration (enchantment)
Bloom (conjuration)
Desolation (necromancy)
Afflict line (necromancy)
Spell
DescriptionsThe following spells are presented in alphabetical order.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: AFFLICT LINE
Level: 9
School: Necromancy
Casting Time: 1 hour
Range: 1 mile
Components: V, S, M (a statuette carved in the
Duration: Permanent; one generation
Description:
likeness of the victim worth 1,250 gp)
You invoke the darkest curses upon your
victim and his or her descendants. This
spell does not require that you have a clear
path to your target, only that your target
is within range. The target must make a
successful Wisdom saving throw or be cursed
until the magic is dispelled. While cursed,
the victim has disadvantage on ability checks
and saving throws made with the ability score
that you used when you cast the spell. In addition, the
target’s firstborn offspring is also targeted by the curse.
That individual is allowed a saving throw of its own if it
is currently alive, or it makes one upon its birth if it is not
yet born when the spell is cast. If the target’s firstborn has
already died, the curse passes to the target’s next oldest
offspring.
Ritual Focus. If you expend your ritual focus, the curse
becomes hereditary, passing from firstborn to firstborn
for the entire length of the family’s lineage until one of
them successfully saves against the curse and throws off
your dark magic.
BLOOM
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: BLOOM
Level: 8
School: Conjuration
Casting Time: 1 hour
Range: 1 mile
Components: V, S, M (a silver acorn worth 500 gp, which
Duration: 1 year
Description:
is consumed in the casting)
You plant a silver acorn in solid ground and spend an
hour chanting a litany of praises to the natural world,
after which the land within 1 mile of the acorn becomes
extremely fertile, regardless of its previous state. Any
seeds planted in the area grow at twice the natural rate.
Food harvested regrows within a week. After one year, the
land slowly reverts to its normal fertility, unable to stave
off the march of nature.
Choose one of the following effects, which appears and
grows immediately:
• A field planted with vegetables of your choice, ready for
harvest.
• A thick forest of stout trees and ample undergrowth.
• A grassland with wildflowers and fodder for grazing.
• An orchard of fruit trees of your choice, growing in
orderly rows and ready for harvest.
Living creatures that take a short rest within the area of a
bloom spell receive the maximum hit points for Hit Dice
expended. Bloom counters the effects of a desolation spell.
Ritual Focus. If you expend your ritual focus, the
duration becomes permanent.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: CELEBRATION
Level: 7
School: Enchantment
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 90 feet
Components: V, S, M (a small party favor)
Duration: 1 hour
Description:
You create a 30-foot-radius area around a point that you
choose within range. An intelligent creature that enters
the area or starts its turn there must make a Wisdom
saving throw. On a failed save, the creature starts to engage
in celebratory revelry: drinking, singing, laughing, and
dancing. Affected creatures are reluctant to leave the area
until the spell ends, preferring to continue the festivities.
They forsake appointments, cease caring about their
woes, and generally behave in a cordial (if not hedonistic)
manner. This preoccupation with merrymaking occurs
regardless of an affected creature’s agenda or alignment.
Assassins procrastinate, servants join in the celebration
rather than working, and guards abandon their posts.
The effect ends on a creature when it is attacked, takes
damage, or is forced to leave the area. A creature that
makes a successful saving throw can enter or leave the area
without danger of being enchanted. A creature that fails
the saving throw and is forcibly removed from the area
must repeat the saving throw if it returns to the area.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 8th level or higher, the spell lasts for an
additional hour for each slot level above 7th.
Ritual Focus. If you expend your ritual focus, an
unaffected intelligent creature must make a new saving
throw every time it starts its turn in the area, even if it has
previously succeeded on a save against the spell.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: CLEARING THE FIELD
Level: 2
School: Transmutation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 40 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: 1 hour
Description:
With a harsh word and a vicious chopping motion, you
cause every tree, shrub, and stump within 40 feet of you to
sink into the ground, leaving the vacated area clear of plant
life that might otherwise hamper movement or obscure
sight. Overgrown areas that counted as difficult terrain
become clear ground and no longer hamper movement.
The original plant life instantly rises from the ground
again when the spell ends or is dispelled. Plant creatures
are not affected by clearing the field.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, the spell lasts for an
additional hour for each slot level above 2nd.
Ritual Focus. If you expend your ritual focus, plant
creatures in the area must make a successful Constitution
saving throw or be affected as though by a reduce spell.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: DESOLATION
Level: 8
School: Necromancy
Casting Time: 1 hour
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (an obsidian acorn worth 500 gp,
Duration: 1 year
Description:
which is consumed in the casting)
You plant an obsidian acorn in solid ground and spend
an hour chanting a litany of curses to the natural world,
after which the land within 1 mile of the acorn becomes
infertile, regardless of its previous state. Nothing will
grow there, and all plant life in the area dies over the
course of a day. Plant creatures are not affected. Spells that
summon plants, such as entangle, require an ability check
using the caster’s spellcasting ability against your spell save
DC. On a successful check, the spell functions normally; if
the check fails, the spell is countered by desolation.
After one year, the land slowly reverts to its normal
fertility, unable to stave off the march of nature.
A living creature that finishes a short rest within the
area of a desolation spell halves the result of any Hit Dice it
expends. Desolation counters the effects of a bloom spell.
Ritual Focus. If you expend your ritual focus, the
duration becomes permanent.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: ENCROACHING SHADOWS
Level: 6
School: Illusion
Casting Time: 1 hour
Range: 150 feet
Components: V, S, M (a drop of blood smeared on a
Duration: 12 hours
Description:
silver rod worth 100 gp)
You cause menacing shadows to invade an area 200 feet on
a side and 50 feet high, centered on a point within range.
Illumination in the area drops one step (from bright light
to dim, or from dim light to darkness). Any spell that
creates light in the area that is cast using a lower-level spell
slot than was used to cast encroaching shadows is dispelled,
and a spell that creates light doesn’t function in the area
if that spell is cast using a spell slot of 5th level or lower.
Nonmagical effects can’t increase the level of illumination
in the affected area.
A spell that creates darkness or shadow takes effect in the
area as if the spell slot expended was one level higher than
the spell slot actually used.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 7th level or higher, the effect lasts for an
additional 12 hours for each slot level above 6th.
Ritual Focus. If you expend your ritual focus, the spell’s
duration increases by 12 hours, and it cannot be dispelled
by a spell that creates light, even if that spell is cast using a
higher-level spell slot.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: EXTRACT ESSENCE
Level: 1
School: Transmutation
Casting Time: 10 minutes
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (a wooden bowl)
Duration: Permanent
Description:
You extract the goodness from food, pulling all the
nutritional value out of three days’ worth of meals and
concentrating it into a tablespoon of bland, flourlike
powder. The flour can be mixed with liquid and drunk or
baked into bread. When consumed, it still imparts all the
nutritional value of the original food.
The original food appears unchanged, and though it’s
still filling, it has no nutritional value.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 2nd level or higher, an additional three meals’
worth of food can be extracted for each slot level above 1st.
Ritual Focus. If you expend your ritual focus, you can
choose to have each day’s worth of meals take the form of a
single slice of bread.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: GUEST OF HONOR
Level: 1
School: Enchantment
Casting Time: 10 minutes
Range: Touch
Components: V, M (a signet ring worth 25 gp)
Duration: 10 minutes
Description:
You whisper words of encouragement, and a creature
that you touch gains confidence along with approval from
strangers. For the spell’s duration, the target puts its best
foot forward and strangers associate the creature with
positive feelings. The target adds 1d4 to all Charisma
(Persuasion) checks made to influence the attitudes of
others.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the effect lasts for an
additional 10 minutes for each slot level above 1st.
Ritual Focus. If you expend your ritual focus, the effect
lasts for 24 hours.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: SHADOWS BROUGHT TO LIGHT
Level: 2
School: Divination
Casting Time: 10 minutes
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
Description:
If a creature you designate within range fails a Charisma
saving throw, you cause the target’s shadow to come to life
and reveal one of the creature’s most scandalous secrets:
some fact that the target would not want widely known
(GM’s choice). When casting the spell, you choose whether
everyone present will hear the secret, in which case the
shadow speaks loudly in a twisted version of the target’s
voice, or if the secret is whispered only to you. The shadow
speaks in the target’s native language.
If the target does not have a scandalous secret or does not
have a spoken language, the spell fails as if the creature’s
saving throw had succeeded.
If the secret was spoken aloud, the target takes a −2
penalty to Charisma checks involving anyone who was
present when it was revealed. This penalty lasts until you
finish a long rest.
Ritual Focus. If you expend your ritual focus, the target
has disadvantage on Charisma checks instead of taking the
−2 penalty.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: SHADOWY RETRIBUTION
Level: 4
School: Necromancy
Casting Time: 10 minutes
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (a small silver cup filled with the
Duration: 12 hours
Description:
caster’s blood)
You fill a small silver cup with your own blood (taking 1d4
piercing damage) while chanting vile curses in the dark.
Once the chant is completed, you consume the blood and
swear an oath of vengeance against any who harm you.
If you are reduced to 0 hit points, your oath is invoked;
a shadow materializes within 5 feet of you. The shadow
attacks the creature that reduced you to 0 hit points,
ignoring all other targets, until it or the target is slain, at
which point the shadow dissipates into nothing.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 5th level or higher, an additional shadow is
conjured for each slot level above 4th.
Ritual Focus. If you expend your ritual focus, the spell
summons a banshee instead of a shadow. If you also use a
higher-level spell slot, additional undead are still shadows.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: SONG OF THE FOREST
Level: 3
School: Transmutation
Casting Time: 10 minutes
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (a dried leaf, crumpled and
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
Description:
released)
You attune your senses to the natural world, so that
you detect every sound that occurs within 60 feet: wind
blowing through branches, falling leaves, grazing deer,
trickling streams, and more. You can clearly picture the
source of each sound in your mind. The spell gives you
tremorsense out to a range of 10 feet. In addition, you
have advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely
on hearing. Creatures that make no noise or that are
magically silent cannot be detected by this spell’s effect.
Song of the forest functions only in natural environments;
it fails if cast underground, in a city, or in a building that
isolates the caster from nature (GM’s discretion).
Ritual Focus. If you expend your ritual focus, the spell
also gives you blindsight out to a range of 30 feet.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: VINE TRESTLE
Level: 2
School: Conjuration
Casting Time: 10 minutes
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (a 1-inch piece of green vine that is
Duration: 1 hour
Description:
consumed in the casting)
You cause a vine to sprout from the ground and crawl
across a surface or rise into the air in a direction chosen
by you. The vine must sprout from a solid surface (such as
the ground or a wall), and it is strong enough to support
600 pounds of weight along its entire length. The vine
collapses immediately if that 600-pound limit is exceeded.
A vine that collapses from weight or damage instantly
disintegrates.
The vine has many small shoots, so it can be climbed with
a successful DC 5 Strength (Athletics) check. It has AC 8,
hit points equal to 5 × your spellcasting level, and a damage
threshold of 5.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 3rd level or higher, the vine can support an
additional 30 pounds, and its damage threshold increases
by 1 for each slot level above 2nd.
Ritual Focus. If you expend your ritual focus, the vine is
permanent until destroyed or dispelled.
For countless ages the heat of the deserts and shifting
sands of these lands have held many secrets that fascinate,
delight, and terrify. Ancient knowledge can be found here
by those who know how and where to look, unlocking
a new world of power and possibility. But beware—this
knowledge is difficult to learn and dangerous to the
unschooled! Few of its masters are willing to teach their
secrets to anyone outside their own sect. But perhaps as
an astute linguist, a talented artist, or even a clever mason,
you can tap into the secret script of magic from ancient
times and unlock the power of hieroglyphs.
Accessing the magic of hieroglyphs requires the Script
Carver and Script Sage feats. If the option to gain feats
isn’t used in your campaign, then Script Carver and
Script Sage can be gained in place of level-based ability
score improvement, if your GM approves. Alternatively,
characters might need to accomplish other, story-related
tasks determined by the GM to gain the abilities bestowed
by the Script Carver and Script Sage feats. Once any
obstacles are cleared, all characters who meet the
prerequisites can gain these feats.
Prerequisite: Intelligence 12 or higher
You have learned how to expertly scribe two hieroglyphs
of your choice, and you gain the benefit associated with
each one. In addition, you can invoke one power of each
hieroglyph you have learned, provided you meet any other
requirements, such as a minimum level.
You can select this feat multiple times. Each time you
do, you gain the benefit and powers of two additional
hieroglyphs of your choice.
Hieroglyph Magic
Prerequisite: Script Carver
Through dedicated study, you have mastered one
hieroglyph of your choice. Choose one hieroglyph that
you have already learned through Script Carver. You can
invoke one of its mastery powers, provided you meet any
other requirements, such as a minimum level.
You can select this feat multiple times. Each time you
do, you learn the mastery powers of a different hieroglyph
from your repertoire.
Invoking one of a hieroglyph’s powers requires an action
and provokes opportunity attacks. Generally, you must
either draw a physical representation of the glyph (in
paint, in blood, in the dirt or snow, and so forth) or trace
the shape of an existing carving of the glyph that was
created to an exacting standard.
Each hieroglyph confers a benefit on someone who
knows how to scribe it. A hieroglyph’s benefit is always
in effect for a character who knows that hieroglyph.
In addition, that character can call upon one of the
hieroglyph’s powers when so desired. Unless otherwise
noted, all hieroglyph powers can be used once, and that
expended use is regained when you finish a long rest.
Some powers have a level requirement (given in
parentheses); when a character attains that level, this
power becomes an additional choice. Mastery powers are a
separate category: only a character who has the Script Sage
feat for a particular hieroglyph can use its mastery power.
If a power or a mastery power has no level requirement,
it becomes available to you as soon as you acquire the
necessary feat.
If a hieroglyph power gives you the ability to cast a spell,
you can do so without needing any components (aside
from materials needed for the drawing of the glyph), and
the spell is always cast as if using the lowest-level spell slot
possible. It typically has the same duration as a normal
casting of the spell, and uses your character level as the
caster level.
When a hieroglyph power calls for a saving throw, the
DC equals 8 + your ability bonus + your proficiency bonus.
The ability that applies to the DC calculation is the same as
the ability used for the saving throw.
Hieroglyph
DescriptionsThe hieroglyphs are presented below in alphabetical order.
AS DOES EVERY GOD, EVERY BIRD, EVERY FISH,
This symbol represents the fertility and abundance of
animal life and every being’s place in the chain of life.
Benefit: You gain advantage on ability checks or skill
checks to identify creatures.
Power: You can use an action to quickly trace this glyph
in the air and stare down a beast or a monstrosity. The
targeted creature must make a Wisdom saving throw. On
a failed save, the creature is frightened of you for as long
as you continue staring at it. While frightened in this way,
the creature must move at its full speed away from you on
each of its turns until you can’t see it or until it makes a
successful saving throw. An affected creature repeats the
saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the
effect on itself with a successful save. When a creature’s
saving throw is successful (regardless of whether it failed
previously), it has disadvantage on attack rolls against you
until the end of its next turn.
Mastery Power: If you spend 1 minute tracing this glyph
on the body of an animal, you can grant yourself a measure
of the animal’s ability. You gain one of the following: a
climbing or swimming speed of 30 feet, or a flying or
burrowing speed of 20 feet—whichever is most appropriate
to the type of animal the bone came from. The effect lasts
for as long as you maintain concentration, up to 1 hour.
This symbol represents sweet scents, perfumes, allure, and
pleasant feelings. It can also be associated with influencing
or changing the mind of another.
Benefit: You gain a +1 bonus on Charisma (Persuasion)
checks.
Power: If you use an action to trace this glyph on your
body in cologne or perfume, you have advantage on
Charisma checks for the next hour.
Power (3rd Level): If you use an action to trace this
hieroglyph on the ground with dust or ink made from the
petals of flowers, every creature within 10 feet of you must
make a successful Charisma saving throw or be charmed
by you for 1 minute.
Power (5th Level): You use an action to contemplate
flower petals as they drift in the breeze, enabling you to
cast a gust of wind spell.
Mastery Power: When you use an action to anoint
yourself with perfume, for the next 10 minutes you have
advantage on Charisma checks to influence people within
50 feet of you.
DRINK DEEP OF THE RIVER’S POWER
This hieroglyph represents the flow of magic through the
land, as well as the physical flow of rivers.
Benefit: You gain the ability to cast one cantrip of your
choice from the wizard spell list. Your spellcasting ability is
Intelligence when you cast this cantrip.
Power (2nd Level): You trace this hieroglyph over
a creature’s eyes in a ritual that takes 10 minutes to
perform. When the ritual is complete, it produces a detect
magic effect that works on the creature and on any items
the creature is holding or carrying. The effect lasts for 1
minute while you maintain concentration.
Mastery Power: You trace this hieroglyph in dirt over
the course of 1 hour. At the end of the hour, you dispel a
magical effect of up to 4th level that is within 120 feet of
you. If the effect is higher than 4th level, you dispel it if
you make a successful Intelligence (Arcana) check against
a DC equal to 10 + the level of the effect.
This symbol represents the transition from the realm of
the living to the realm of the dead. It is often engraved on
the tombs of fallen heroes.
Benefit: You gain a +1 bonus on Constitution saving
throws.
Power: When you drop to 0 hit points, you become
stabilized immediately and automatically.
Mastery Power: You can see a distance of 60 feet into
the Ethereal Plane for 1 hour. You also can determine
whether anyone within 60 feet of you is possessed by a
spirit; you see such a figure as having a vague, dim outline
around it.
FLY AS THE FALCON, HOWL AS THE WOLF
This symbol represents hunting, tracking, stalking, and
bringing prey to the ground.
Benefit: You gain a +1 bonus on Wisdom (Survival) checks.
Power (2nd Level): When you use an action to trace
this symbol on the body of a willing creature, the creature
gains darkvision out to a range of 20 feet, which lasts for 1
minute and works even in magical darkness.
Power (4th Level): You trace this hieroglyph on an
item that belongs to a specific creature or clearly represents
a creature you have encountered, then use an action to
consume it. For the next hour, the tracks of that creature
glow in your sight. You can follow and track the creature
automatically while moving at the speed of a forced march.
Mastery Power: By using an action to trace this glyph
on your hand, you invoke the hunter’s gift against a specific
creature. The target must be a creature you have previously
used one of this hieroglyph’s powers against. The next
time you hit the creature with an attack, it must make a
successful Constitution saving throw or take an additional
1d10 necrotic damage from the attack.
This symbol represents gifts, knowledge, secrets, and
things hidden.
Benefit: You gain a +1 bonus on Intelligence
(Investigation) checks.
Power: By spending 1 minute in concentration while
holding a papyrus reed, you can cast the spell speak with
inanimate object (see ).
Power (4th Level): By taking an action to break open
an egg, you create an extradimensional space (a “silver
coffer”) that is 5 cubic feet in volume and can hold up to 50
pounds of material. This space looks like a simple, empty
hole in the ground, but when you reach inside it, you always
find whatever you placed inside. The extradimensional
space remains visible as a hole in the ground for 24
hours, then disappears, along with its contents. It can be
reopened with another use of this hieroglyph power. The
silver coffer’s location on the Material Plane depends on
your location when you trigger the hieroglyph. This power
always opens the same extradimensional space no matter
how much time passes or how far you travel between uses,
so it’s not a good way to dispose of, for example, unwanted
or dangerous magic items. If the person who created the
extradimensional space dies, any items in the silver coffer
eventually reappear on their plane of origin at a random
location, anytime from a day to several centuries after the
creator’s death.
Mastery Power (10th Level): By taking an action to rub a
special brown paste over your eyes that costs 50 gp, you can
cast true seeing on yourself.
This symbol represents charity, healing, benevolent
leadership, and sanctuary given to friends and kin as well
as enemies.
Benefit: You have advantage on Wisdom (Medicine)
checks.
Power: If you spend an hour in meditation while holding
a mug of beer or a goblet of wine, your sincere wish to help
someone transfers into the brew. When a creature drinks
the brew, it gains all the benefits of finishing a short rest.
This brew remains potent for 24 hours.
Mastery Power: If you spend an hour in meditation
while holding a full waterskin, up to six creatures that
drink from the waterskin recover from two levels of
exhaustion and don’t need any food or water until after
finishing a long rest. The water remains potent for up to 24
hours, or until six creatures have drunk it.
THE GODS’ COMPANY IS LIKE LIGHT
This symbol represents knowledge gained over an
extended time through dedication and effort.
Benefit: You gain the ability to speak and read one
additional language of your choice.
Power: After meditating on this hieroglyph for 10
minutes, you can cast comprehend languages.
Power (2nd Level): If you take an action to trace this
symbol on your forehead or that of another creature, the
recipient gains advantage on Intelligence checks for 1
minute.
Mastery Power: By inhaling incense and powders over
the course of an hour, you call upon your ancestors to
reveal a bit of knowledge from the past. This knowledge
enables you to gain your ancestors’ assistance with a
problem immediately before you. The implementation of
this benefit is up to the GM; you might receive a specific
clue that helps you to solve the problem, or you might
gain proficiency for 1 hour with a skill or a set of tools,
or advantage on a single type of skill check for the same
length of time.
This symbol represents the judgment of the dead,
ever watchful and weighing the actions of the living in
expectation of the moment when they eventually pass on
from the world.
Benefit: You gain a +1 bonus on Intelligence
(Investigation) checks.
Power: You trace this hieroglyph in ash on the body of
a willing creature, which requires an action. For the next
hour, the creature has advantage on Wisdom ability checks.
Power (3rd Level): If you use an action to trace this
hieroglyph in the air with your fingers, you force a creature
you can see to make a Wisdom saving throw. On a failed
save, you can immediately give the creature one command,
either verbally or in writing, that can be completed in the
next minute. The creature must try to obey the command
to the best of its ability, provided that doing so won’t
directly harm it. If the task isn’t completed within 1
minute, the glyph’s power wears off and the creature is
freed from the compulsion.
Mastery Power (9th Level): You spend 10 minutes
decorating a piece of paper with this hieroglyph. If you
then take an action to burn the paper, you can cast a geas
spell on one target. As with a normal casting of the spell,
you and the target must have a language in common for
the effect to work.
This symbol represents the prevention of harm, usually
through the protection of devoted soldiers or bodyguards.
Benefit: When you wear no armor, your Armor Class
is equal to 10 + your Wisdom modifier + your Dexterity
modifier.
Power (3rd Level): If you take an action to trace
this hieroglyph on a creature, you grant that creature
resistance to bludgeoning, piercing, or slashing damage
(your choice) for 1 minute.
Power (5th Level): By taking an action to burn a bit
of incense, you can conjure a squad of soldiers. These
soldiers can appear different to different creatures; some
might see a squad of orcs, others a group of the king's
guards. The soldiers appear standing inside a 10-foot-
square space within 10 feet of you, and they can’t leave
that space. Within that space, they behave like a swarm;
other creatures can enter the space and end their turn
there. Whenever one of your enemies enters the soldiers’
space or starts its turn in the space or within 5 feet of it, the
soldiers attack that creature. Their attack bonus is equal
to your Wisdom modifier + your proficiency modifier, and
a successful attack deals 2d6 force damage. The soldiers
remain for 1 minute, provided you maintain concentration
on them. They are immune to all forms of damage and can’t
be dispelled except by breaking your concentration.
Mastery Power (8th Level): If you take an action to trace
this hieroglyph on the ground and then throw a handful of
sand into the air, you can cast banishment.
This symbol represents the power of storms and wind and
the effect these phenomena can have on the world.
Benefit: You can resist any effect or attack that would
move you, causing you to be moved 5 feet less than the
effect’s normal distance.
Power (3rd Level): By drawing this hieroglyph in the
air for three consecutive turns (each one requiring an
action), you gain the ability to cast wind wall.
Power (5th Level): After spending an hour in
meditation with burning incense before tracing this
hieroglyph in the air, you can cast a modified version of
control weather. Unlike the spell, this power affects an area
only a quarter-mile in radius, and the change lasts no
longer than 20 minutes.
Mastery Power: Immediately after performing a
10-minute ritual with special incense, you can cast a
modified version of wind walk. Unlike the spell, this power
affects up to five creatures, and the effect lasts for up to 2
hours and requires your concentration.
This symbol represents travel, persistence, and not giving
up in the face of challenge.
Benefit: You gain a +1 bonus on saving throws to resist
exhaustion.
Power (3rd Level): If you take an action to trace this
symbol on the body of a willing creature, you increase that
creature’s speed by 15 feet for 1 hour. This power affects all
forms of movement the creature can use.
Mastery Power: By drawing this hieroglyph on the
ground over the course of 10 minutes, you create a
temporary portal to another place within 1 mile that you’re
familiar with. You can step through the portal once, after
which it disappears. You can bring along a number of
other creatures equal to one-fourth your level (round up),
provided all of them are your size or smaller and either
willing or helpless.
This symbol represents triumph over your enemies,
victory, and celebration of those victories.
Benefit: You gain a +1 bonus on Charisma
(Intimidation) checks.
Power (3rd Level): To trigger this power, you must use
an action to trace the symbol on yourself with a knife or
other sharp object (pressing hard enough to leave a mark
on the skin but not hard enough to draw blood) and emit
a loud battle cry. Each creature you designate within 10
feet of you that hears the battle cry must make a successful
Charisma saving throw or be frightened for 1 minute.
Mastery Power: Once a week, you can host a feast for
your companions and other allies. Each individual who
partakes in the feast gains temporary hit points equal
to your Charisma modifier (minimum of 2) and has
advantage on the same number of its next attack rolls.
The effect dissipates for each creature after 24 hours if the
benefits have not been used by then.
This symbol represents casting off chains, putting down
oppression, and opening pathways.
Benefit: You gain a +1 bonus on Dexterity (Sleight of
Hand) checks.
Power: If you use an action to trace this hieroglyph on
a rope, chain, or other implement that’s holding you in
place, you gain advantage on Dexterity checks made to
free yourself. This benefit doesn’t apply to checks made
to escape a grapple, unless you’re being grappled by an
inanimate object.
Mastery Power: When you take an action to trace
this hieroglyph on the body of a willing creature, you can
impart to that creature the effect of a blink spell.
This symbol represents robust and vigorous health and the
favor of the gods.
Benefit: Your hit point maximum increases by 1 for each
Hit Die you have.
Power: When you take an action to trace this hieroglyph
on a creature’s skin with blood, that creature gains a
number of temporary hit points equal to your Hit Dice.
Mastery Power: If you spend 1 minute repeatedly
tracing this hieroglyph on the body of an afflicted creature,
you can cast lesser restoration on that creature.
This symbol represents physical and mental strength,
overcoming weakness, and surpassing limits.
Benefit: You count as one size larger for the purpose of
determining your carrying capacity and the weight you can
push, drag, or lift.
Power: By using an action to trace this hieroglyph on a
creature, you double that creature’s Strength bonus for
the purpose of determining the damage from its next
successful attack.
Power (3rd Level): If you take an action to crush a
previously prepared clay semblance of this hieroglyph, you
gain advantage on Strength checks for 1 minute. You can
also give the clay hieroglyph to another creature, so that
creature can gain the benefit from crushing it.
Mastery Power: If you use an action to trace this
hieroglyph on a creature, it is freed from the need for sleep
and immune to the effects of exhaustion for 24 hours.
This symbol represents moral rightness, dominance,
rulership, and ego.
Benefit: You have advantage on Charisma saving throws.
Power (3rd Level): By tracing this hieroglyph on your
clothing, you rally your allies and improve their morale.
For the next minute, each of your allies gains a +1 bonus
on attack rolls, saving throws against fear effects, and skill
checks while within 10 feet of you.
Mastery Power: If you use an action to trace this
hieroglyph on a willing creature, it gains the ability to
overawe the mind of one other creature within 60 feet. The
targeted creature must make a successful Charisma saving
throw or prostrate itself before the creature that bears the
hieroglyph. An awed creature repeats the saving throw at
the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself with
a success. The effect lasts for 1 minute or until the awed
creature is attacked.
This symbol represents vision, sight, and perceiving from
great distances.
Benefit: You gain a +1 bonus on Wisdom (Perception)
checks.
Power: If you use an action to trace this glyph on a
creature, you can cast enhance ability on the target, which
gains the benefit of the Owl’s Wisdom effect.
Mastery Power: By tracing this glyph over and over in a
10-minute ritual, you can cast clairvoyance.
This symbol represents looking beneath the surface to see
the world differently or to question the way things are done.
Benefit: You gain a +1 bonus on Wisdom (Insight) checks.
Power (3rd Level): By spending 5 minutes tracing the
hieroglyph on a creature, you imbue that creature with
the ability to cast detect evil and good once in the next 24
hours. The hieroglyph can also be created on a small object
instead of directly on a creature; in that case, detect evil and
good can be cast once by a creature holding the object.
Power (6th Level): After spending 10 minutes inking
this hieroglyph in the middle of your forehead, you gain
the benefits of casting detect thoughts for as long as you
concentrate, up to 1 minute.
Mastery Power: By taking an action to draw this
hieroglyph, you can cast arcane eye.
WITH ONE HEART AND VOICE,
This symbol represents unity, community, common
purpose and goals, and protecting one another.
Benefit: You have advantage on any saving throw that is
also being made by at least one of your allies.
Power (3rd Level): By using an action to draw this
hieroglyph on a rope that you use to bind your wrist to
another creature, you can absorb the damage and other
effects from the next attack that hits the other creature.
The attack must hit the other creature, but it affects you
instead; the other creature is unaffected. The rope can be
no more than 30 feet long.
Mastery Power: By invoking this hieroglyph during
a 10-minute ritual, you can grant telepathy to up to ten
creatures that are within 60 feet of you. The telepathy lasts
for 1 hour, and it works only among the affected creatures
(including you); it can’t be used to communicate with
creatures outside the group.
This symbol is associated with strength, speed, honor, and
heroism.
Benefit: You gain a +1 bonus on initiative rolls.
Power (4th Level): As an action, you can trace this
hieroglyph on a creature to grant it advantage on Strength
checks and Constitution checks for as long as you
maintain concentration, up to 1 hour.
Power (6th Level): By spending 1 round in
concentration to summon power from the sky, you can
target one creature that has this hieroglyph emblazoned
on its forehead. The creature gains the effects of the enlarge
spell, and its head takes on the appearance of a hawk for
the duration of the effect.
Mastery Power (8th Level): When you use an action
to trace this symbol in the air, you grant the speed of the air
to an ally within 60 feet. The affected ally gains the effect of
a haste spell for 1 minute.
Illumination magic concerns both the manipulation of
light and observations of the heavens. Its practitioners
have been likened to elemental specialists who have
an affinity for light instead of fire, earth, air, or water.
Naturally, these individuals are anathema to creatures
and spellcasters that lurk in places where darkness and
shadow hold sway.
Mastery of illumination magic comes from long and
dedicated study, and thus wizards have access to more of
these spells than other spellcasting classes do.
CANTRIPS (0 LEVEL)
Light (evocation)
Amplify light (transmutation)
Faerie fire (evocation)
Illumination Magic

Phantom light (illusion)
Daylight (evocation)
CANTRIPS (0 LEVEL)
Light (evocation)
Amplify light (transmutation)
Faerie fire (evocation)
Guiding bolt (evocation)
Continual flame (evocation)
Daylight (evocation)
Protective nimbus (abjuration)
Searing sun (transmutation)
Greater protective nimbus (abjuration)
Burning radiance (evocation)
Soothing incandescence (evocation)
Sunburst (evocation)
CANTRIPS (0 LEVEL)
Starburst (evocation)
Faerie fire (evocation)
Guiding star (divination)
Continual flame (evocation)
Phantom light (illusion)
Daylight (evocation)
Tracking beacon (divination)
Searing sun (transmutation)
Starfall (evocation)
Sunburst (evocation)
Faerie fire (evocation)
Guiding bolt (evocation)
Guiding star (divination)
Continual flame (evocation)
Daylight (evocation)
Tracking beacon (divination)
CANTRIPS (0 LEVEL)
Light (evocation)
Amplify light (transmutation)
Faerie fire (evocation)
Guiding bolt (evocation)
Continual flame (evocation)
Phantom light (illusion)
Daylight (evocation)
Shield of starlight (abjuration)
Searing sun (transmutation)

Starfall (evocation)
Burning radiance (evocation)
Last rays of the dying sun (evocation)
Sunburst (evocation)
Star’s heart (transmutation)
CANTRIPS (0 LEVEL)
Light (evocation)
Starburst (evocation)
Faerie fire (evocation)
Guiding bolt (evocation)
Orb of light (evocation)
Phantom light (illusion)
Daylight (evocation)
CANTRIPS (0 LEVEL)
Starburst (evocation)
Light (evocation)
Amplify light (transmutation)
Faerie fire (evocation)
Guiding bolt (evocation)
Guiding star (divination)
Continual flame (evocation)
Orb of light (evocation)
Phantom light (illusion)
Daylight (evocation)
Protective nimbus (abjuration)
Shield of starlight (abjuration)
Tracking beacon (divination)
Searing sun (transmutation)
Greater protective nimbus (abjuration)
Starfall (evocation)
Burning radiance (evocation)
Last rays of the dying sun (evocation)
Soothing incandescence (evocation)
Summon star (conjuration)
Sunburst (evocation)
Star’s heart (transmutation)
.
Sharp‑eyed readers will note that some of the spells
described in the standard rules are given out to classes
that were not originally included in those classes' spell lists.
Granting access to those spells to a wider range of classes
is a deliberate change, meant to showcase the expanded
power and utility of illumination magic. If the GM decides
that this approach is too generous, some or all of these
adjustments might be disallowed.

The following spells are presented in alphabetical order.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: AMPLIFY LIGHT
Level: 1
School: Transmutation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (a nonmagical light source)
Duration: Special
Description:
You touch a nonmagical light source and increase its
brightness. While the spell is in effect, the radius of the
bright light around the source is doubled, and dim light
extends for the same distance beyond that area. The
light source’s duration is halved, however, so that a torch
affected by amplify light would burn out in half an hour, or
a hooded lantern would burn through its fuel in 3 hours.
Adding new fuel to a light source while it is under the
effect of amplify light will end the spell and return it to its
normal brightness.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: BURNING RADIANCE
Level: 6
School: Evocation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self (60-foot line)
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
Description:
A line of light 60 feet long and 5 feet wide emanates from
you in a direction of your choice. Each creature in the line
must make a Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, a
creature takes 10d8 radiant damage and catches fire; until
someone takes an action to douse the fire, the creature
takes 1d10 fire damage at the start of each of its turns. A
successful saving throw halves the damage and prevents a
creature from catching fire.
The burning radiance ignites flammable objects in the
area that aren’t being worn or carried.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: GREATER PROTECTIVE NIMBUS
Level: 5
School: Abjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (a transparent gemstone worth at
Duration: 10 minutes
Description:
least 50 gp)
You wrap yourself in a powerful corona that sheds bright
light in a 30-foot radius and dim light for an additional 30
feet. Until the spell ends, you have resistance to necrotic
damage and radiant damage. You can end the spell early by
using an action to dismiss it, which creates a blast of light
in a 30-foot radius. The blast deals 4d8 radiant damage
to each creature in the area while simultaneously healing
yourself of an equal amount of damage.
1st-level divination (ritual) (illumination)
Casting Time: 10 minutes
Range: Self
Components: V, S
Duration: 8 hours
By observing the stars or the position of the sun, you are
able to determine the cardinal directions, as well as the
direction and distance to a stated destination. You can’t
become directionally disoriented or lose track of the
destination. The spell doesn’t, however, reveal the best
route to your destination or warn you about deep gorges,
flooded rivers, or other impassable or treacherous terrain.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: LAST RAYS OF THE DYING SUN
Level: 7
School: Evocation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 40 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
Description:
A burst of searing heat explodes from you, dealing 6d6
fire damage to all enemies within range. Immediately
afterward, a wave of frigid cold rolls across the same area,
dealing 6d6 cold damage to enemies. A creature that makes
a successful Dexterity saving throw takes half the damage.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 8th or 9th level, the damage from both waves
increases by 1d6 for each slot level above 7th.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: ORB OF LIGHT
Level: 2
School: Evocation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: 1 round
Description:
An orb of light the size of your hand shoots from your
fingertips toward a creature within range, which takes 3d8
radiant damage and is blinded for 1 round. A target that
makes a successful Dexterity saving throw takes half the
damage and is not blinded.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 3rd level or higher, the damage increases by
1d8 for each slot level above 2nd.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: PHANTOM LIGHT
Level: 2
School: Illusion
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (a small sketch of a candle)
Duration: 1 hour
Description:
You touch one object that measures less than 10
feet in every dimension. Until the spell ends, the
object sheds bright light in a 20-foot radius and
dim light for an additional 20 feet. The light can
be colored as you like. At the time of the casting,
you designate up to six creatures. Only those
creatures are able to see and gain benefit from the
phantom light.
The object can be covered with something opaque to
block the light. You can use an action to dismiss this spell.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: PROTECTIVE NIMBUS
Level: 3
School: Abjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (a crystal or glass bead)
Duration: 10 minutes
Description:
You wrap yourself in a corona that sheds bright light
in a 20-foot radius and dim light for an additional 20
feet. Until the spell ends, you have resistance to necrotic
damage. You can end the spell early by using an action to
dismiss it.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: SEARING SUN
Level: 4
School: Transmutation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 200 feet
Components: V, S, M (a magnifying lens)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Description:
This spell intensifies the light and heat of the sun, so
that it burns exposed flesh. You must be able to see the
sun when you cast the spell. The searing sunlight affects
a cylindrical area 50 feet in radius and 200 feet high,
centered on the a point within range. Each creature that
starts its turn in that area takes 5d8 fire damage, or half
the damage with a successful Constitution saving throw.
A creature that’s shaded by a solid object —such as an
awning, a building, or an overhanging boulder— has
advantage on the saving throw. On your turn, you can use
an action to move the center of the cylinder up to 20 feet
along the ground in any direction.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: SHIELD OF STARLIGHT
Level: 3
School: Abjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (a star chart)
Duration: 10 minutes
Description:
You wrap yourself in a protective shroud of the night sky
made from swirling shadows and punctuated by twinkling
motes of light. The shroud grants you resistance against
either radiant or necrotic damage (your choice when the
spell is cast). You also shed dim light in a 10-foot radius.
You can end the spell early by using an action to dismiss it.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: SOOTHING INCANDESCENCE
Level: 7
School: Evocation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self (30-foot radius)
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
Description:
A soft, white radiance spreads out from a point just above
your head, creating bright light in a 30-foot radius around
your present location. If you move from your present
location, the area of light remains fixed. A creature in the
area other than a fiend or an undead regains 1 hit point at
the start of each of its turns while within the bright light.
Each fiend or undead in the area takes 2d4 radiant damage
at the start of each of its turns.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: STARBURST
Level: cantrip
School: Evocation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
Description:
You cause a mote of starlight to appear and explode in a
5-foot cube you can see within range. If a creature is in the
cube, it must succeed on a Charisma saving throw or take
1d8 radiant damage.
This spell’s damage increases to 2d8 when you reach 5th
level, 3d8 when you reach 11th level, and 4d8 when you
reach 17th level.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: STARFALL
Level: 5
School: Evocation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
Description:
You cause bolts of shimmering starlight to fall from the
heavens, striking up to five creatures that you can see
within range. Each bolt strikes one target, dealing 6d6
radiant damage, knocking the target prone, and blinding
it until the start of your next turn. A creature that makes a
successful Dexterity saving throw takes half the damage, is
not knocked prone, and is not blinded. If you name fewer
than five targets, excess bolts strike the ground harmlessly.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 6th level or higher, you can create one
additional bolt for each slot level above 5th.
STAR’S HEART
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: STAR’S HEART
Level: 9
School: Transmutation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 50 feet
Components: V, S, M (an ioun stone)
Duration: 1 minute
Description:
This spell increases gravity tenfold in a 50-foot radius
centered on you. Each creature in the area other than
you drops whatever it’s holding, falls prone, becomes
incapacitated, and can’t move. If a solid object (such as the
ground) is encountered when a flying or levitating creature
falls, the creature takes three times the normal falling
damage. Any creature except you that enters the area
or starts its turn there must make a successful Strength
saving throw or fall prone and become incapacitated and
unable to move. A creature that starts its turn prone and
incapacitated makes a Strength saving throw. On a failed
save, the creature takes 8d6 bludgeoning damage; on a
successful save, it takes 4d6 bludgeoning damage, it’s no
longer incapacitated, and it can move at half speed.
All ranged weapon attacks inside the area have a normal
range of 5 feet and a maximum range of 10 feet. The same
applies to spells that create missiles that have mass, such as
flaming sphere. A creature under the influence of a freedom of
movement spell or comparable magic has advantage on the
Strength saving throws required by this spell, and its speed
isn’t reduced once it recovers from being incapacitated.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: SUMMON STAR
Level: 8
School: Conjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 90 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Description:
You summon a friendly star from the heavens to do your
bidding. It appears in an unoccupied space you can see
within range and takes the form of a glowing humanoid
with long white hair. All creatures other than you who view
the star must make a successful Wisdom saving throw or be
charmed for the duration of the spell. A creature charmed
in this way can repeat the Wisdom saving throw at the end
of each of its turns. On a success, the creature is no longer
charmed and is immune to the effect of this casting of the
spell. In all other ways, the star is equivalent to a deva. It
understands and obeys verbal commands you give it. If you
do not give the star a command, it defends itself and attacks
the last creature that attacked it. The star disappears when
it drops to 0 hit points or when the spell ends.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: TRACKING BEACON
Level: 3
School: Divination
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 8 hours
Description:
You choose a creature within range to mark with a
glowing orb of light, which floats 120 feet above the
creature’s head. The target must make a Wisdom saving
throw. On a successful save, the spell ends. On a failed
save, the light hovers above the target’s location, moving
as the target moves, which enables you to track the
creature’s direction and distance by staying within
sight of the beacon. The beacon continues to function
even when you cannot see it, as long as the target
remains on the same plane as you. If either you or the
target travels to another plane, the spell ends.
You can use a bonus action on your turn to adjust the
height of the beacon, ranging from its starting point of
120 feet to as low as 5 feet above the head of the target.
Wizards who pursue illumination magic, called
illuminators, use the stars to predict when danger is near,
and they draw on the power of light to attack their foes.
This branch of magic is popular with those who delve
underground, because its spells work best where light
is dim or absent.
How to Start: If you’re a wizard who wants
to become an illuminator, you make that
decision upon reaching 2nd level, when
you are also entitled to choose an
arcane tradition. If you decide to
follow the path of the illuminator
exclusively, you can forego the
selection of an arcane tradition
and gain the features of the
illuminator specialty instead.
You can also pursue the illuminator specialty in
conjunction with one of the standard arcane traditions. If
you choose to do this, you gain the Savant feature of your
chosen school in addition to Illumination Magic Savant
(described below). Also at 2nd level, you choose whether
to gain Omen of Warning (see below) or the 2nd-level
feature of your chosen school. Thereafter, at 6th, 10th, and
14th level, you choose between the lowest-level features
still available. For instance, a diviner might select Portent
at 2nd level and Omen of Warning at 6th level, followed
by either Expert Divination or Master of the Radiant
Heavens at 10th level.
Beginning when you select this school at 2nd level, the
gold and time needed to copy illumination spells into your
spellbook is halved.
Starting at 2nd level, you can forecast danger for the next
24 hours by studying the stars for 1 hour. The stars must
be visible to you for you to use this feature. Studying the
stars in this way gives you advantage on up to two initiative
rolls. The bonus remains for 24 hours or until the end of
your next long rest.
Instead of using this feature on yourself, you can grant
advantage on an initiative roll to one other creature you
can see when initiative rolls are made, but doing this
prevents you from using the benefit on yourself in that
combat. You can choose whether to use this feature at
the moment initiative is rolled, but you must make the
decision before rolling the die.
Starting when you reach 6th level, the spell attack modifier
and spell save DC for any cantrips you cast in dim light or
darkness increases by 1.
Beginning at 10th level, illusion spells you cast that require
concentration last for 1 round after you stop concentrating,
as long as the spell hasn’t exceeded its duration.
Starting at 14th level, during a long rest you can consult
the stars and comprehend some meaning in a cosmic
event. The stars must be visible to you for you to use this
ability. The insight you gather is stored as a small reserve
of magic inside an item that has meaning to you; a star
chart or an astrolabe is commonly used, but any item that
can be held in your hand will suffice. When the item is in
your hand, you can consume that stored magic as a bonus
action to produce one of the effects described below. The
insight is expended in one use, and it is lost if it hasn’t been
used within 24 hours or by the time you start your next
long rest.
Comet: Comets are the harbingers of change and
instability. You can change your appearance as if you
had cast an alter self spell, but the effect doesn’t require
concentration and lasts until you finish a long rest.
Conjunction: Planetary conjunctions destabilize
minds and emotions. You can give one creature you can see
disadvantage on a saving throw against one enchantment
or illusion spell you cast.
Eclipse: Eclipses plunge the world into darkness and
strengthen connections to the shadow plane. When you
cast a spell of 5th level or lower that deals necrotic damage,
you can reroll a number of damage dice equal to your
Intelligence modifier (minimum of one die). You must use
the new rolls.
Dwarves are renowned as shapers of the physical world.
Earth, stone, and metal bend to the will of dwarven
hammers. It’s easy to assume that because dwarves have
such great skill at shaping material, they must lack the
time and energy to become masters of the arcane, too—
but that assumption is wrong. Taking unformed matter
and shaping it to conform to one’s will is an effective way
of blending the physical and arcane arts. The dwarves’
greatest magic has come from this effort, as evidenced
by the legendary weapons, armor, and implements of
war that emerge from their mountain strongholds. Few
dwarves pursue the study of magic aside from devotion to
their deities, but one discipline bridges the gap between
creation and spellcasting: ring magic.
Ring magic is the dwarven art of forging metal into rings,
often with runes inscribed on their surface, and using
those rings to produce or bring about magical effects.
Dedicated practitioners known as ring wardens channel
their magic through specially prepared rings, increasing
the devastation wreaked upon their foes, and they can
even imbue spells into rings that they or someone else can
unleash later.
Rings created for the purpose of invoking ring magic
are more than decorative hand jewelry. They often take
the form of circlets of precious metal large enough to
adorn a weapon, a staff, or a suit of armor. Wizards who
devote themselves to ring magic are rare outside the
dwarves’ lands, but they’re instantly recognizable by the
ring-adorned stafffs they carry.
Ring Magic
Although ring magic spells often require a ring of
some form as a material component, the effects they
produce are quite distinct and variable, from illusions
to transmutations and evocations. What they have in
common is that dwarves have uncovered a way to bind the
effects into rings; the deeper arcane connection between
the rings and the spells is sometimes elusive.
Ring Magic
Spell ListThe following spells are available to ring wardens in
addition to those on the wizard spell list, and also to
sorcerers and warlocks who have a ring magic feat (Circle
Spellcaster or Ring-bound).
CANTRIPS (0 LEVEL)
Hoarfrost (evocation)
Circle of wind (abjuration)
Ring strike (transmutation)
Bitter chains (transmutation)
Reverberate (evocation)
Innocuous aspect (illusion)
Spinning axes (evocation)
Curse ring (necromancy)
Enchant ring (enchantment)
Ring ward (abjuration)
Create ring servant (transmutation)
Circle of devastation (evocation)
CANTRIPS (0 LEVEL)
Hoarfrost (evocation)
Circle of wind (abjuration)
Ring strike (transmutation)
Bitter chains (transmutation)
Reverberate (evocation)
Innocuous aspect (illusion)
Spinning axes (evocation)
Curse ring (necromancy)
Circle of devastation (evocation)
CANTRIPS (0 LEVEL)
Hoarfrost (evocation)
Circle of wind (abjuration)
Ring strike (transmutation)
Bitter chains (transmutation)
Reverberate (evocation)

Innocuous aspect (illusion)
Spinning axes (evocation)
Curse ring (necromancy)
Enchant ring (enchantment)
can choose one of the following damage types: cold, fire,
lightning, necrotic, or radiant. Each creature or object
that is inside the cylinder when it’s created or ends its turn
inside the cylinder takes 6d6 damage of the chosen type,
or half the damage with a successful Constitution saving
throw. A creature or object dropped to 0 hit points by the
spell is reduced to fine ash.
The cylinder’s radius expands by 20 feet at the start of
each of your turns after the spell is cast. Any creatures or
objects enveloped in the enlarged area are subject to its
effects immediately.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: CIRCLE OF WIND
Level: 1
School: Abjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (a crystal ring)
Duration: 8 hours
Description:
Light wind encircles you, leaving you in the center of a
mild vortex. For the duration, you gain a +2 bonus to your
AC against ranged attacks. You also have advantage on
saving throws against extreme environmental heat and
against harmful gases, vapors, and inhaled poisons.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: CREATE RING SERVANT
Level: 8
School: Transmutation
Casting Time: 1 minute
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (two metal rings)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
Description:
You touch two metal rings and infuse them with life,
creating a short-lived but sentient construct known as
a ring servant (Creature Codex, p. 318). The ring servant
appears adjacent to you. It reverts form, changing back
into the rings used to cast the spell, when it drops to 0 hit
points or when the spell ends.
Ring ward (abjuration)
Create ring servant (transmutation)
Circle of devastation (evocation)

The following spells are presented in alphabetical order.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: BITTER CHAINS
Level: 2
School: Transmutation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (a spiked metal ring)
Duration: 1 minute
Description:
The spiked ring in your hand expands into a long, barbed
chain to ensnare a creature you touch. Make a melee spell
attack against the target. On a hit, the target is bound in
metal chains for the duration. While bound, the target
can move only at half speed and has disadvantage on
attack rolls, saving throws, and Dexterity checks. If it
moves more than 5 feet during a turn, it takes 3d6 piercing
damage from the barbs.
The creature can escape from the chains by using an
action and making a successful Strength or Dexterity
check against your spell save DC, or if the chains are
destroyed. The chains have AC 18 and 20 hit points.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: CIRCLE OF DEVASTATION
Level: 9
School: Evocation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 1 mile
Components: V, S, M (a metal ring)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Description:
You create a 10-foot-tall, 20-foot-radius cylinder of
destructive energy around a point you can see within
range. The area is difficult terrain. When you cast the
spell and as a bonus action on each of your turns, you
The ring servant is friendly to you and your companions
for the duration. Roll initiative for the ring servant,
which acts on its own turns. It obeys any verbal
commands that you issue to it (no action
required by you). If you don’t issue any
commands to the ring servant, it defends itself
and you from hostile creatures but otherwise
takes no actions.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: CURSE RING
Level: 5
School: Necromancy
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (250 gp
Duration: Permanent until discharged
Description:
worth of diamond dust, which the
spell consumes)
You lay a curse upon a ring you touch that
isn’t being worn or carried. When you
cast this spell, select one of the possible
effects of bestow curse. The next creature that
willingly wears the ring suffers the chosen
effect with no saving throw. The curse transfers
from the ring to the wearer once the ring is put
on; the ring becomes a mundane ring that can
be taken off, but the curse remains on the creature
that wore the ring until the curse is removed or
dispelled. An identify spell cast on the cursed ring
reveals the fact that it is cursed.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: ENCHANT RING
Level: 6
School: Enchantment
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (500 gp worth of diamond
Duration: Permanent until discharged
Description:
dust, which the spell consumes)
You enchant a ring you touch that isn’t being worn
or carried. The next creature that willingly wears
the ring becomes charmed by you for 1 week or until it is
harmed by you or one of your allies. If the creature dons
the ring while directly threatened by you or one of your
allies, the spell fails.
The charmed creature regards you as a friend. When
the spell ends, it doesn’t know it was charmed by you, but
it does realize that its attitude toward you has changed
(possibly greatly) in a short time. How the creature reacts
to you and regards you in the future is up to the GM.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: HOARFROST
Level: cantrip
School: Evocation
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (a melee weapon)
Duration: 1 minute
Description:
A melee weapon you are holding is imbued with cold. For
the duration, a rime of frost covers the weapon and light
vapor rises from it if the temperature is above freezing.
The weapon becomes magical and deals an extra 1d4 cold
damage on a successful hit. The spell ends after 1 minute,
or earlier if you make a successful attack with the weapon
or let go of it.
The spell’s damage increases by 1d4 when you reach 5th
level (2d4), 11th level (3d4), and 17th level (4d4).
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: INNOCUOUS ASPECT
Level: 3
School: Illusion
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self (20-foot radius)
Components: V, S, M (a paper ring)
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
Description:
An area of false vision encompasses all creatures within
20 feet of you. You and each creature in the area that you
choose to affect take on the appearance of a harmless
creature or object, chosen by you. Each image is identical,
and only appearance is affected. Sound, movement, or
physical inspection can reveal the ruse.
A creature that uses its action to study the image visually
can determine that it is an illusion with a successful
Intelligence (Investigation) check against your spell save
DC. If a creature discerns the illusion for what it is, that
creature sees through the image.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: REVERBERATE
Level: 2
School: Evocation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self (15-foot cone)
Components: V, S, M (a metal ring)
Duration: Instantaneous
Description:
You touch the ground at your feet with the metal ring,
creating an impact that shakes the earth ahead of you.
Creatures and unattended objects touching the ground
in a 15-foot cone emanating from you take 4d6 thunder
damage, and creatures fall prone; a creature that makes a
successful Dexterity saving throw takes half the damage
and does not fall prone.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 3rd level or higher, the damage increases by
1d6 for each slot level above 2nd.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: RING STRIKE
Level: 1
School: Transmutation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (two metal rings)
Duration: 1 hour
Description:
You infuse two metal rings with magic, causing them to
revolve in a slow orbit around your head or hand. For the
duration, when you hit a target within 60 feet of you with
an attack, you can launch one of the rings to strike the
target as well. The target takes 1d10 bludgeoning damage
and must succeed on a Strength saving throw or be
pushed 5 feet directly away from you. The ring is destroyed
when it strikes.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 2nd level or higher, you can affect up to two
additional rings for each spell slot level above 1st.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: RING WARD
Level: 7
School: Abjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (an iron ring worth 200 gp, which
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
Description:
the spell consumes)
The iron ring you use to cast the spell becomes a faintly
shimmering circlet of energy that spins slowly around you
at a radius of 15 feet. For the duration, you and your allies
inside the protected area have advantage on saving throws
against spells, and all affected creatures gain resistance to
one type of damage of your choice.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: SPINNING AXES
Level: 4
School: Evocation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (an iron ring)
Duration: Instantaneous
Description:
Spinning axes made of luminous force burst out from you
to strike all creatures within 10 feet of you. Each of those
creatures takes 5d8 force damage, or half the damage with
a successful Dexterity saving throw. Creatures damaged
by this spell that aren’t undead or constructs begin
bleeding. A bleeding creature takes 2d6 necrotic damage
at the end of each of its turns for 1 minute. A creature can
stop the bleeding for itself or another creature by using
an action to make a successful Wisdom (Medicine) check
against your spell save DC or by applying any amount of
magical healing.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 5th level or higher, the damage increases by
1d8 for each slot level above 4th.
The ring is a powerful shape, with no beginning or end,
and potent ties to life. These feats allow any character to
experience the distinctive power of ring magic.
Prerequisite: The ability to cast at least one spell.
You have learned to create a circular flow of magic between
yourself and an allied spellcaster to bolster your spells. You
gain the following benefits:
• Increase your Intelligence, Wisdom, or Charisma score
by 1, to a maximum of 20.
• You can spend 2 hours (which can be during a long
rest) creating a mystical bond with another spellcaster.
Both of you must spend this time in meditation, and
you must remain within 10 feet of each other. The bond
goes into effect when the meditation is over (or when
you finish your long rest). Once the bond is formed,
the two of you can bolster one another’s magic. When
one of you must make a Constitution saving throw to
maintain concentration on a spell, the other can use his
or her reaction to help maintain the effect. Both of you
make the saving throw. If either save is successful, the
caster maintains concentration. If both saves are failed,
both of you lose concentration on any spells you are
maintaining and each of you takes 2d6 psychic damage
from the strain. You can maintain this bond with only
one spellcaster at a time. If you create a new bond, the
previous one breaks. Otherwise, the bond lasts until
you finish your next long rest.
RING-BOUND
Prerequisite: The ability to cast at least one spell.
You have acquired a magic-imbued ring as a token of
respect. You gain the following benefits from the ring:
• You have advantage on saving throws against
transmutation spells.
• You can physically bind your ring to a weapon with
1 hour of work that can be completed during a short
rest. While the ring is attached to the weapon, you can
use a bonus action to make the weapon magical until
the start of your next turn. After activating this ability
twice, you must finish a short or long rest before using
it again.
• Ring wardens and others who respect the traditions
of ring magic are favorably disposed toward you. Their
starting attitude toward you automatically improves by
one step, and you have advantage on Charisma checks
related to social interaction with such individuals.
The dwarves long ago discovered the means to infuse
magic into rings, and the first ring wardens came into
being soon after that discovery came to light.
With a focus on the school of transmutation, ring wardens
blend dwarven craftsmanship with arcane might. They are
rarely encountered outside dwarven nations, but they are
easy to recognize thanks to their signature ring-staves.
Except as noted below, ring wardens function as
transmuters and use the wizard spell list.
Beginning when you select this specialty at 2nd level, the
gold and time you must spend to copy a transmutation
spell into your spellbook is halved.
In addition, the gold and time you must spend to copy a
ring magic spell into your spellbook is halved.
Also at 2nd level, you gain proficiency in your choice of
blacksmith’s tools or jeweler’s tools.
BONDED RING-STAFF
At 2nd level, you create a special quarterstaff with two
special metal rings adorning it. When you roll damage for
a spell attack while you hold your ring-staff, you can add
your proficiency bonus to the result. If the spell allows for
multiple damage rolls against multiple targets (such as with
scorching ray), you must choose which roll gains the benefit
before you roll the die. You can use this ability a number of
times equal to the number of rings on your staff. You regain
all expended uses when you finish a short or long rest.
Whenever you gain a new wizard level, you can attach a
new ring to your staff by spending 8 hours of work with
blacksmith’s tools or jeweler’s tools and paying a cost of 5
gp in raw materials.
Beginning at 6th level, you can add twice your normal
proficiency bonus when you use the tools you chose at 2nd
level. When using your chosen tools to craft nonmagical
or magical items, you make twice the normal amount of
progress each day.
Additionally, you learn the method for crafting a single
kind of magic ring chosen from the following list: ring of
jumping, ring of mind shielding, ring of protection, ring of the
ram, ring of regeneration, or ring of resistance. At the GM’s
discretion, you can choose a ring not listed here. You must
meet all the standard prerequisites for crafting the ring and
pay the required gold as normal, along with providing any
special materials or meeting any conditions set by the GM.
Starting at 10th level, you can imbue magic into the special
rings that decorate your ring-staff. When you cast a spell,
instead of having it take effect normally, you can choose
to store the spell in one of the rings. As long as the spell
is stored, you can’t regain the expended spell slot. You
can remove an imbued ring from the staff and give it to
another creature (or hold it yourself) as an action.
A creature holding an imbued ring can release
the stored spell as an action. Attack rolls, saving
throws, and damage are based on the caster who
imbued the ring, but the creature holding the
ring counts as the spell’s caster for all other
purposes.
After you remove an imbued ring from the
staff, you must create a new special ring and
affix it to the staff by working for 8 hours
and spending 5 gp in raw materials. An
imbued ring is considered a magical
effect for the purpose of dispel
magic. You can have a number of
rings imbued at one time equal to
your proficiency bonus.
At 14th level or higher, with
1 hour of work (which can be
accomplished during a short rest),
you can embed a single magic
ring that you possess into your
ring-staff. The ring's rarity must be
common, uncommon, or rare. As
long as you hold the ring-staff, you
gain the effect of the embedded
ring as if you were attuned to it and wearing it (including
any negative effects of attuning to the item, such as
curses). This embedded ring doesn’t count as one of your
three allowable attuned magic items.
With one hour of work, you can remove an embedded
ring (along with its attunement) and replace it with a new
one if desired.
Writing can be an expression of magic, and a way to trap
and focus arcane energy. This precept is the foundation of
rune magic, which requires carving, writing, or otherwise
generating glyphs, sigils, signs, and runes of many kinds.
This practice is quite common among many different
people, from dwarves and druids to northlanders and
even some goblin tribes. The rune magic presented here is
somewhat northern-flavored, but it could easily serve for
dwarven runes, druidic ogham, or goblin graffiti magic.
The deeper understanding is that shapes bind power, and
that magic can be made tangible. That tangible magic can
be a stone rune, a silvery sigil, or even a bloody scrawl—its
power functions regardless of how it was made.
Rune PowersAccessing the magic inherent within runes requires the
Rune Knowledge feat. If the option to gain feats isn’t used
in your campaign, then Rune Knowledge can be gained
in place of level-based ability score improvement, if your
GM approves. Alternatively, characters might need to
accomplish other, story-related tasks determined by the
GM to gain Rune Knowledge. Once those obstacles are
cleared, all characters who meet the prerequisites can gain
Rune Knowledge and Rune Mastery. A character who
acquires the Rune Knowledge feat can begin making use
of the runes described here.
Rune Magic
When one of your rune powers calls for a saving throw, the
DC is equal to 8 + your ability modifier + your proficiency
bonus. Your applicable ability modifier is the same one
being used for the saving throw unless a different ability is
specified; for example, if a rune calls for a Charisma saving
throw, your Charisma modifier is used to set the DC.
Prerequisite: Wisdom 12 or higher
You are wise in the lore of two runes of your choice. You
always have access to the benefit that a rune provides. In
addition, you can invoke one rune power of each rune you
have learned, provided you meet any other requirements
such as a minimum level.
You can select this feat multiple times. Each time you do,
you gain the benefit and powers of two additional runes of
your choice.
Prerequisite: Rune Mastery
You have mastered the special powers of one rune. Choose
one rune that you have already learned through Rune
Knowledge. You can invoke one of its mastery powers,
provided you meet any other requirements such as a
minimum level.
You can select this feat multiple times. Each time you do,
you learn the mastery powers of a different rune from your
repertoire.
Invoking
Rune PowersInvoking one of a rune’s powers requires an action and
provokes opportunity attacks. Generally, you must either
create a physical representation of the rune (in paint, in
blood, drawn in the dirt or snow, and so forth) or trace the
shape of an existing carving of the rune that was created to
an exacting standard.
Each rune confers a benefit on someone who knows how
to scribe it. A rune’s benefit is always in effect for a character
who knows that rune. In addition, that character can call
upon one of the rune's powers when so desired. Unless
otherwise noted, any rune power can be used once, and that
expended use is regained when you finish a long rest.
Some powers have a level requirement (given in
parentheses); when a character attains that level, this
power becomes an additional choice. Mastery powers are
a separate category: only a character who has the Rune
Mastery feat for a particular rune can use its mastery power.
If a power or a mastery power has no level requirement,
it becomes available to you as soon as you acquire the
necessary feat.
If a rune’s power gives you the ability to cast a spell, you
can do so without needing any components (aside from
materials needed for the drawing of the rune), and the spell
is always cast as if using the lowest-level spell slot possible.
It typically has the same duration as a normal casting of the
spell, and uses your character level as the caster level.
When a rune power calls for a saving throw, the DC
equals 8 + your ability bonus + your proficiency bonus.
Typically, the ability that applies to the DC calculation is
the same as the ability used for the saving throw.
Rune
descriptionsThe following runes are presented in alphabetical order.
ALGIZ
Elk and reindeer, evading danger; the god
Heimdall
Benefit: You gain a +1 bonus on
initiative rolls.
Power (5th level): Living creatures that
are within 10 feet of an algiz rune when
you draw it on the ground or on a wall gain a +2 bonus
on Wisdom (Perception) checks and have advantage on
saving throws against sleep spells and other magical effects
that cause unconsciousness. Both effects last for 8 hours.
Scribing the rune takes 15 minutes.
Mastery Power (8th Level): Marking a willing
creature with the algiz rune transforms the creature into
an elk, as if by a polymorph spell. Drawing the rune on the
creature takes an action, and the change lasts while you
concentrate, for up to 1 hour.
ANSUZ
Gods and outsiders
Benefit: You gain a +1 bonus on
Intelligence (Arcana) checks to identify the
type, powers, or weaknesses of aberrations,
celestials, fey, or fiends.
Power: Once per day, the ansuz rune can be sketched on
an object to ward off giants and fey hostile to the Aesir. The
object must be presented boldly toward such creatures,
each of which must make a Charisma saving throw. On a
failed save, the creature must stay at least 5 feet away from
the rune and cannot touch or make melee attacks against
the creature presenting it, as long as the symbol is boldly
and aggressively presented (which requires an action each
round). Sketching the rune takes an action, and the marked
object remains effective for 1 minute.
Power (7th level): If you sketch ansuz on a floor or a
wall, each of your allies within 10 feet of it can roll a d4 and
add the result to each of its attack rolls, similar to the effect
of a bless spell. Sketching the rune takes two actions, and it
remains effective thereafter for as long as you concentrate,
for up to 1 minute.
Mastery Power (11th level): When you trace ansuz
on the forehead of a willing creature, the creature falls
into a trance, during which it receives a message from the
gods (identical in effect to a divination spell). A creature
can experience only one such trance per week. Tracing the
rune takes 10 minutes, and the trance lasts for 1 round.
Birch tree, love, new beginnings; the Bear Maiden
Benefit: You gain a +1 bonus on Charisma
(Persuasion) checks.
Power: When you trace berkanan on a
living creature, the rune grants the creature
advantage on a single Charisma (Persuasion) check of
its choosing. Tracing the rune takes 10 minutes, and it
remains effective for up to 1 hour.
When you trace this rune on a living plant, an effect
identical to a spike growth spell erupts in a 20-foot radius
around the rune. Tracing the rune on a plant takes an
action, and the effect lasts while you concentrate, for up to
10 minutes.
Mastery Power (8th level): You can create a philter of
love once a week.
DAGAZ
Day and laying the dead to rest
Benefit: You can always tell whether a
creature you can see within 10 feet of you
is alive or dead.
Power (4th level): If you use an action
to trace dagaz on a creature that is blinded,
deafened, paralyzed, poisoned, or diseased, the creature’s
affliction is cured as if by a lesser restoration spell.
Power (6th level): Tracing dagaz on an object makes
it give off bright light in a 60-foot radius and dim light for
60 feet beyond that. Magical darkness of 3rd level or lower
is dispelled in an area where this light overlaps it. The
light is blocked as normal by opaque objects or structures.
Tracing the rune for this purpose takes an action, and the
light lasts while you concentrate, for up to 1 hour.
Mastery Power (13th level): Once a week, you
can sketch dagaz on the ground or a wall to create an
instantaneous effect identical to a cleric’s Turn Undead
class feature. Sketching the rune takes an action, and it
affects undead within 30 feet that can see it at the moment
of its completion.
EHWAZ
Horses, freedom, the Nithing Pole
Benefit: You gain a +1 bonus to Wisdom
(Animal Handling) checks made to
control a mount, and to Dexterity checks
made to wriggle free of bonds.
Power (5th level): Using an action to trace ehwaz on
a lock or a set of shackles has the same effect as casting a
knock spell, but makes no sound.
Mastery Power (8th level): When you sketch ehwaz
on the ground, you can produce the effect of a phantom steed
spell. Sketching the rune takes 5 minutes, and the illusory
steed remains for 1 hour or until it takes damage.
Mastery Power (9th level): You can create a nithing
pole once per month. The process can be performed
only during a new moon, takes 12 hours, and requires
bloodletting that leaves a permanent scar in the shape of
the ehwaz rune on the rune maker’s left hand. Each new
use of this power creates a new scar; those after the first
don’t need to be on the hand, but they must be on the
hands or arms.
Wondrous item, rare
A nithing pole is crafted to exact retribution for an act of
cowardice or dishonor. It is a sturdy wooden staff, 6 to
10 feet long, carved with runes that name the dishonored
target of the staff ’s curse. The carved shaft is draped in
horsehide, topped with a horse’s skull, and placed where its
target is expected to pass by; typically, the pole is driven into
the ground or wedged into a rocky cleft in a remote spot,
where the intended victim won’t see it until it’s too late.
A pole is created to punish a certain person for a specific
crime. The target must be named on the pole; a description
such as “the person who blinded Lars Gustafson” isn’t
precise enough. The moment the target approaches within
60 feet, the pole casts bestow curse (with a range of 60 feet
instead of touch) on the target. The DC for the target’s
Wisdom saving throw is 15. On a successful save, the pole
recasts the spell every round until the target’s saving throw
is a failure, the target retreats out of range, or the nithing
pole is destroyed. Anyone other than the pole’s creator who
tries to destroy or knock down a nithing pole is also targeted
by a bestow curse spell, but only once.
You determine the effect of the curse when the pole is
created. The pole becomes nonmagical only after it has
laid its curse on its intended target; an untriggered and
forgotten nithing pole remains dangerous for centuries. The
curse, once activated, lasts for 8 hours and doesn’t require
concentration.
EIWAZ
Yew tree, Yggdrasil
Benefit: You have proficiency on
Intelligence (Arcana) checks.
Power (4th level): Spending an action
to trace eiwaz onto a suitably sized piece of
wood subjects it to the effect of a shillelagh spell
for 1 minute. This power is usable at will.
Mastery Power (8th level): If you take 1 minute to
write out three questions on a piece of paper or parchment
and trace eiwaz on the bottom of the sheet, you can later
produce an effect similar to a contact other plane spell
(including the possible negative consequences). If you
later sleep for at least 10 minutes while holding the sheet,
your dreams yield answers to those questions that you
can receive when you awaken if you make a successful
Intelligence saving throw.
Mastery Power (11th level): When carved on the
bark of a living tree, eiwaz allows you to travel between
that tree and another tree within 500 feet that you have
previously marked with eiwaz, as if both were under the
effect of a tree stride spell. Each carving takes an action,
and the effect lasts while you concentrate, for up to 1
minute after the second carving is finished.
FEHU
Cattle, livestock, and wealth
Benefit: You have advantage on Wisdom
(Animal Handling) checks concerning
domesticated animals that aren’t used as
riding mounts.
Power: Sketching fehu on an object makes that item
easier to lift or drag, as if it were only half its actual weight.
Sketching the rune takes 1 minute, and the effect lasts
while you concentrate, for up to 1 hour. This power works
equally well on a single object, such as a block of stone, or
on a collection of objects that are bundled together, such
as a large chest stuffed with coins.
Mastery Power (8th level): By spending 1 minute
tracing fehu on your skin, you can cast dominate beast as
though from a 6th-level spell slot. The effect must be used
within 10 minutes of completing the tracing, or the rune’s
power dissipates.
GEBU
Generosity and hospitality, gifts
Benefit: You have advantage on Intelligence
checks to estimate an item’s value.
Power: When you spend 1 minute carefully
examining an item while tracing gebu on it, you learn the
item’s name and magical properties, as if you had cast an
identify spell. Alternatively, if you use an action to trace
gebu on a willing creature, that creature gains the effect
of a sanctuary spell. (You can’t use this power on yourself.)
The effect lasts while you concentrate, for up to 1 minute.
Mastery Power (8th level): To use this power, you
take an action to scratch or sketch gebu on a wall, floor,
or other surface of an enclosed space, in a place where it
is clearly visible. For up to 1 minute thereafter, you can
activate the rune with a command word, provided you
are within 20 feet of it. When you do so, each creature
within 20 feet of the rune and with a clear line of sight to
it (regardless of whether the creature can actually see it)
must make a Charisma saving throw. On a failed save, a
creature is affected as if by a calm emotions spell that lasts
while you concentrate, for up to 1 minute.
Hail, winter weather
Benefit: You have advantage on Wisdom
(Survival) checks to predict weather conditions
for the next 24 hours in your vicinity.
Power: If you take an action to trace hagalaz on a willing
creature, it receives the benefit of a protection from energy
(cold) spell while you concentrate, for up to 1 hour.
Mastery Power (9th level): When you sketch hagalaz
on the ground under the open sky, you produce the effect
of a sleet storm centered on a point you choose within 150
feet. Sketching the rune takes 4 rounds, and the storm
lasts while you concentrate, for up to 2 minutes.
Mastery Power (14th level): When hagalaz is
sketched on the ground inside the area of an effect caused
by sleet storm, ice storm, control weather (hail or blizzard
only), or a similar spell, the rune brings about a dispel magic
effect as if that spell had been cast with a 7th-level slot. If
the effect being dispelled is from 8th- or 9th-level magic,
you use Charisma for the ability check to determine the
rune’s effectiveness. Sketching the rune takes 2 rounds.
Mastery Power (14th level): When hagalaz is
sketched on the ground inside the area of a natural
(nonmagical) storm, the rune brings about the effect of a
control weather spell. Sketching the rune takes 1 hour, and
the control lasts while you concentrate, for up to 8 hours.
Ancestors, major deities
Benefit: You have proficiency on
Intelligence (History) checks.
Power (4th level): When you use an
action to trace ingwaz on a spear, the first character who
uses the spear against an enemy adds 1d4 radiant damage
to attacks made with the spear. The first attack must be
made within 8 hours after the rune is traced, and the
benefit lasts for 1 minute after it is triggered.
Power (5th level): When you trace ingwaz on the
face of a willing creature, the creature gains the benefit
of the barbarian’s Rage class feature, as though it were a
barbarian of your character level. Tracing the rune takes
two actions, and the effect lasts for 1 minute.
Mastery Power (8th level): When ingwaz is traced
on the flesh of a corpse, the rune creates the effect of a
speak with dead spell on that corpse. Tracing the rune takes
1 minute, and the effect lasts while you concentrate, for up
to 10 minutes.
ISAZ
Ice, imprisonment, paralysis
Benefit: Whenever you take cold damage, that
damage is reduced by 1.
Power (4th level): When you take an action
to sketch isaz on the ground, slick ice spreads out
from that point to cover an area of 225 square feet. The
iced area can have any shape you want, as long as every
square of ice has at least one side in common with another
square of ice; on a grid of 5-foot squares, the ice can
cover as many as 9 squares. Ice-filled squares are difficult
terrain, and the DC of Dexterity (Acrobatics) checks made
in the area increases by 5. The ice is nonmagical and melts
normally.
Power (5th level): When isaz is traced on a weapon,
the weapon sheds bright light in a 10-foot radius and dim
light for 10 feet beyond that, and it deals an extra 1d4 cold
damage on a hit. Tracing the rune takes an action, and the
effect lasts while you concentrate, for up to 1 hour.
Mastery Power (8th level): A shield marked with
this rune glitters like frost in the morning sun. As an
action, a wielder of the shield who is in direct sunlight can
use it to focus reflected light on a single creature within
30 feet. The target must make a successful Constitution
saving throw or become blinded. The DC for the saving
throw equals 8 + your Dexterity bonus + your proficiency
bonus. Marking the shield takes an action, and the rune
remains effective while you concentrate, for up to 1 hour.
JERA
Abundant harvest; the gods Frey and Freya
Benefit: You have proficiency on
Intelligence (Nature) checks.
Power (4th level): When jera is traced
on the belly of a living creature, the rune
guarantees that any sexual union involving that creature
in the next 24 hours proves fruitful. If the rune is traced
on a pregnant creature at least once per month during its
pregnancy, the act guarantees a successful birth and healthy
offspring. Tracing the rune takes an action.
Power (6th level): When jera is traced on a wooden
table, plate, or platter, all food and drink that’s spoiled,
rotten, diseased, poisonous, or otherwise contaminated
within 20 feet of that object becomes pure and safe for
consumption. Tracing the rune takes an action.
Mastery Power (8th level): When jera is drawn in the
earth among living plants, the effect of a plant growth spell
arises in a 100-foot radius around the rune. Sketching the
rune takes an action.
Flaming torch, enlightenment, ulcers
Benefit: You gain darkvision out to
a range of 30 feet. If you already have
darkvision, you gain proficiency on Wisdom
(Perception) checks.
Power (4th level): When you spend 1 minute tracing
kaunen on the ground, that spot burns like a campfire for
up to 8 hours. The fire is 2 feet in diameter, and the flames
deal 2d6 fire damage to any creature that ends its turn in
the fire. It provides warmth as a campfire, but the flame
cannot be transported or used to set other objects afire.
Power (5th level): Tracing kaunen onto a weapon
causes that weapon to shed bright light in a 10-foot radius
and dim light for 10 feet beyond that, and the weapon
deals an extra 1d6 fire damage on a hit. Tracing the rune
takes an action, and the effect lasts while you concentrate,
for up to 1 hour.
Mastery Power (8th level): When you use an action
to trace the rune on a living creature, kaunan produces the
effect of a lesser restoration spell on that creature.
Water, the sea, the god Njord
Benefit: You gain Aquan as a bonus
language. If you already know this
language, you have advantage on Charisma
(Persuasion) checks involving creatures from
the Elemental Plane of Water.
Power (4th level): When you take an action to trace
laukaz on an object, it becomes more buoyant for 24
hours. Anyone grasping the object has advantage on
Strength (Athletics) checks to swim or to stay afloat.
Power (7th level): When you trace laukaz on a living
creature’s chest, the creature gains the benefit of a water
breathing spell. Tracing the rune takes an action, and the
effect lasts for 24 hours.
Mastery Power (11th level): When you draw the
rune on the surface of a lakebed, a riverbed, or the sea
bottom, you can manipulate a 100-foot cube of the nearby
water as if by a control water spell. Sketching the rune takes
an action, and the effect lasts while you concentrate, for up
to 10 minutes.
Humanoids, especially humans and dwarves
Benefit: You gain a +1 bonus on saving
throws against petrification and against
effects that alter your form, such as
lycanthropy, polymorph, or flesh to stone.
Power (5th level): When mannaz is traced on the
ground, a boulder, or a wall, it produces the effect of a calm
emotions spell on all living creatures within 20 feet of the
rune. Tracing the rune takes an action, and the effect lasts
while you concentrate, for up to 1 minute.
Mastery Power (8th level): When you use an action
to trace mannaz on the flesh of a creature, the act returns a
lycanthrope to its humanoid form or dispels (as if by dispel
magic) a polymorph effect the target is currently under. An
unwilling creature can resist this change with a successful
Charisma saving throw (using your Wisdom modifier to
set the DC).
Mastery Power (9th level): Tracing mannaz on a
plant or animal causes it to be affected as if by the awaken
spell. Drawing the rune in this way takes 8 hours, and the
effect is permanent.
Necessity and filling needs
Benefit: Once a day, you can cast spare
the dying.
Power (4th level): By spending an action
to trace naudiz on an item, you grant a
creature that touches the item the benefit of
a guidance or resistance spell (creature’s choice). A number
of creatures equal to your proficiency bonus can benefit
from this effect. Both the rune and the effect last while you
concentrate, for up to 1 minute.
Power (5th level): You can trace naudiz in the air in
such a way that five creatures within 10 feet of you have
their hit point maximums increased by 5, and each gains 5
hit points. Tracing the rune takes an action, and the effect
lasts for 8 hours.
Mastery Power (15th level): When you use an action
to trace naudiz on an object weighing no more than 20
pounds, you can call that item to you once during the
next 24 hours if it is anywhere within 400 feet. The item
teleports into your hand instantly when you use an action
to call it. If another creature is holding the object, that
creature prevents it from teleporting with a successful
Charisma saving throw (using your Wisdom modifier to
set the DC).
NYKÖPING
Passage of time, the seasons, phases of
the moon
Benefit: You gain proficiency on
Wisdom (Survival) checks.
Power (5th level): When nyköping
is sketched on the ground, up to six
creatures of your choice can each regain hit points equal
to 2d8 + your Wisdom modifier. You must be able to see
the creatures, and they must be within 30 feet of you.
Sketching the rune in this way takes 10 minutes.
Power (6th level): When you take an action to trace
the rune on the ground under an open sky, nyköping
creates the effect of a gust of wind spell. The wind lasts
while you concentrate, for up to 1 minute.
Mastery Power (9th level): Tracing nyköping on
a creature grants it the benefit of a haste spell. Drawing
the rune takes an action, and the effect lasts while you
concentrate, for up to 1 minute.
Mastery Power (13th level): When you sketch
nyköping on the ground beneath the open sky, the weather
in the area improves toward clear skies, as if you had cast
control weather. The rune can only improve the weather, not
make it more severe. Sketching the rune takes 1 hour, and
the effect lasts for 8 hours.
Property, inheritance, family
Benefit: You gain proficiency on
Charisma (Persuasion) checks.
Power (7th level): When this rune
is traced on a reflective surface (for
example, a mirror, a polished shield, or
even still water), otalan lets you scry on an object that you
have possessed for at least one week, or on any member of
your immediate family within three generations of you, as
if subjected to the scrying spell. Tracing the rune takes 10
minutes, and the effect lasts while you concentrate, for up
to 10 minutes.
Mastery Power (13th level): When otalan is invoked
on an object, the rune’s power lingers harmlessly in the
item until the death of the item’s owner. The moment
that creature dies, the object teleports into the hands of
another individual whose identity is specified when the
rune is created. This person can be described by name, by
title, or by relationship (for example, “the king of Noatun”
or “my firstborn son”). This power functions over any
range as long as the object and the individual are on the
same plane. If another creature is holding the object when
its owner dies, that creature can prevent the object from
teleporting by making a successful Charisma saving throw
(using your Wisdom modifier to set the DC). The rune
remains effective until it is triggered or until you use this
power to invoke the rune on a different object. Preparing
the object takes 10 minutes.
PERTO
Things not as they seem, the god Loki
Benefit: You gain a +1 bonus on
Wisdom ability checks to solve riddles or
puzzles, and on Wisdom saving throws
against illusions.
Power (4th level): When you take an
action to trace perto on a creature, you can change the
creature’s appearance as if by a disguise self spell. If the
creature has Intelligence 3 or higher, it decides how to
change its appearance. The effect persists for 1 hour.
Mastery Power (8th level): Spending an action to
trace perto on the ground causes all objects within 10
feet of the rune to be undetectable by divination magic or
scrying sensors. The effect lasts for 8 hours.
RAIDO
Travel
Benefit: Your speed is 5 feet faster than
the norm for your race, and you always
know which way is north.
Power (4th level): The possessor of
an object that has had raido sketched on it has advantage
on Dexterity (Acrobatics) checks to ski, skate, or control a
sled. Sketching the rune in this way takes 1 minute, and the
effect lasts while you concentrate, up to 1 hour.
Power (5th level): By using an action to trace raido on
your skin, you bestow the benefit of a water walk spell on
yourself and up to five other creatures of your choice that
you can see.
Power (7th level): If you take 1 minute to sketch raido
on the sole of your foot or boot, you gain the ability to
engage in a forced march for 12 hours instead of the usual 8
hours before risking exhaustion. You can impart this ability
on up to five other creatures of your choice that you can
see, but all of you must travel together for the entire period.
The effect ends 12 hours after your forced march begins,
regardless of whether you are traveling at that time.
The sun, the god Balder
Benefit: You gain immunity to the
blinded condition.
Power (5th level): When traced on a
creature, sowilo grants it magical confidence
and magnetism, enabling it to use an enthrall
effect on an audience, as with the spell. Tracing the rune
takes an action, and the effect lasts for 1 minute.
Power (7th level): Spending an action tracing sowilo on
an object makes it glow, as if by the daylight spell, for 1 hour.
Mastery Power (13th level): Spending an action
drawing sowilo on the brow of a creature causes its eyes
to emit a brilliant light, as a sunbeam spell. The creature is
immune to the blinded condition for the duration of the
effect, which lasts while you concentrate, for up to 1 minute.
TEWAZ
Fearlessness, assemblies or councils, the god Tyr
Benefit: You gain advantage on saving
throws against the frightened condition.
Power (4th level): Tewaz can be sketched
on an object to ward off wolves, worgs,
werewolves, and other lupine creatures. The
object must be presented boldly toward such creatures,
each of which makes a Charisma saving throw. On a failed
save, the creature must stay at least 5 feet away from the
rune and cannot touch or make melee attacks against
the creature presenting it, as long as the symbol is boldly
and aggressively presented (which requires an action
each round). Sketching the rune takes an action, and the
marked object remains effective for 1 hour.
Power (5th level): When tewaz is sketched somewhere
clearly visible, it produces the effect of a calm emotions spell
on all creatures that can see it within a 20-foot radius.
Sketching the rune takes an action, and the effect lasts
while you concentrate, for up to 1 minute.
Giants, thunder and lightning
Benefit: You gain Giant as a bonus
language. If you already know this
language, you gain advantage on Wisdom
(Insight) checks involving giants.
Power (4th level): A weapon marked
with turisaz deals an extra 1d4 lightning damage on each
of the next five times it hits its target within the next hour.
Marking the weapon takes an action.
Power (5th level): Armor marked with turisaz has
resistance to lightning damage and grants a +2 bonus to
the wearer’s Strength score. Marking the armor takes an
action, and the effect lasts while you concentrate, for up
to 1 hour.
Mastery Power (8th level): When inscribed on a
surface, the turisaz rune acts as a glyph of warding that deals
6d8 lightning damage if triggered. Sketching the rune
takes 1 hour, and the effect lasts for up to 24 hours, or until
the glyph is triggered or dispelled.
URUZ
Wild oxen, sacrifice to the gods, strength
Benefit: You gain a +2 bonus to
your Strength score for the purpose of
determining carrying capacity.
Power (4th level): The wielder of a
shield that has been inscribed with uruz
gains the benefits of the Charger feat. Tracing the rune
takes 1 minute, and the effect lasts for 1 hour.
Power (5th level): When uruz is traced on the flesh of
a living creature, the creature’s carrying capacity doubles,
and the creature has advantage on Strength checks.
Tracing the rune takes an action, and the effect lasts while
you concentrate, for up to 1 hour.
Mastery Power (8th level): When you trace this rune
on an appropriate sacrifice (food, a symbolic weapon, an
animal), any offenses the sacrifice giver has committed
against the gods are forgiven (treat as a remove curse effect).
Tracing the rune in this way takes 1 hour, and the sacrifice
must be offered no more than 1 hour later.
WUNJO
Happiness and joy
Benefit: After using inspiration or
gifting it to another player, you have a
20 percent chance to retain it. If you use
inspiration that was retained in this way, it
can’t be retained again.
Power (4th level): Tracing the wunjo rune on the
ground or on a boulder creates the effect of an animal
friendship spell on one beast within 30 feet. Tracing the
rune takes an action, and the effect lasts for 24 hours.
Mastery Power (8th level): If you use an action to
sketch wunjo on an object that you then hold aloft, your
allies that can see you have advantage on saving throws
against fear, charm, and domination effects. The effect
lasts while you concentrate, for up to 10 minutes.
Darkness brings a tingle to the spine, reminding us of a
time when we felt trapped without light and the darkness
itself seemed a companion to fear.
When the light goes out, the hair on the back of your
neck stands up. Was that the wind, or is something
lurking in the dark, waiting to attack you? When nature’s
deadliest predators hunt in darkness, their ability to see
when we can’t makes us feel weak against their power.
Shadow magic can lend a sinister feel to an NPC, or
cast a player character as a cursed hero who uses the
power of darkness for good—at the cost of his or her
soul. Spellcasters who manipulate shadow draw this
mysterious, unsettling energy from alien dimensions
and turn it to their own uses.
Shadow Magic
Shadow Magic
Spell ListsThe concept of shadow magic is closely associated with
sorcerers, warlocks, and wizards. Unless the GM rules
otherwise, none of these spells are available to other classes.
CANTRIPS (0 LEVEL)
Claws of darkness (evocation)
Douse light (transmutation)

Black ribbons (conjuration)
Shadow armor (abjuration)
Dark path (conjuration)
Darkbolt (evocation)
Negative image (conjuration)
Shadow puppets (illusion)
Call shadow mastiff (conjuration)
Legion (conjuration)
Shadow tendrils (necromancy)
Hide in one's shadow (transmutation)
Shadow monsters (illusion)
Shadow step (conjuration)
Dark dementing (illusion)
Shadow gateway (conjuration)
Become nightwing (enchantment)
Conjure shadow titan (conjuration)
Dying of the light (evocation)
Creeping darkness (conjuration)
Umbral storm (necromancy)
CANTRIPS (0 LEVEL)
Claws of darkness (evocation)
Douse light (transmutation)
Shadow blindness (illusion)
Black ribbons (conjuration)
Shadow armor (abjuration)
Shadow hands (evocation)
Dark path (conjuration)
Darkbolt (evocation)
Negative image (conjuration)
Shadow puppets (illusion)
Call shadow mastiff (conjuration)
Legion (conjuration)
Shadow tendrils (necromancy)
Black hand (necromancy)
Hide in one's shadow (transmutation)
Shadow monsters (illusion)
Shadow step (conjuration)
Dark dementing (illusion)
Shadow gateway (conjuration)
Become nightwing (enchantment)
Shadow metamorphosis (transmutation)
Conjure shadow titan (conjuration)
Dying of the light (evocation)
Creeping darkness (conjuration)
Umbral storm (necromancy)
CANTRIPS (0 LEVEL)
Claws of darkness (evocation)
Douse light (transmutation)
Shadow bite (illusion)
Shadow blindness (illusion)
Silhouette (illusion)
Black ribbons (conjuration)
Cloak of shadow (illusion)
Shadow armor (abjuration)
Shadow hands (evocation)
Dark path (conjuration)
Darkbolt (evocation)
Negative image (conjuration)
Shadow puppets (illusion)
Slither (transmutation)
Call shadow mastiff (conjuration)
Hide in one's shadow (transmutation)
Legion (conjuration)
Shadow tendrils (necromancy)
Shadow trove (transmutation)
Black hand (necromancy)
Shadow monsters (illusion)
Shadow step (conjuration)
Dark dementing (illusion)
Shadow gateway (conjuration)
Become nightwing (enchantment)
Black well (necromancy)
Shadow metamorphosis (transmutation)
Conjure shadow titan (conjuration)
Dying of the light (evocation)
Creeping darkness (conjuration)
Umbral storm (necromancy)

The following spells are presented in alphabetical order.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: BECOME NIGHTWING
Level: 6
School: Enchantment
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (a crow’s eye)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Description:
This spell imbues you with wings of shadow. For the
duration of the spell, you gain a flying speed of 60 feet and
a new attack action: Nightwing Breath.
Nightwing Breath (Recharge 4–6). You exhale
shadow-substance in a 30-foot cone. Each creature in the
area takes 5d6 necrotic damage, or half the damage with a
successful Dexterity saving throw.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: BLACK HAND
Level: 4
School: Necromancy
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Description:
You gather the powers of darkness into your fist and fling
dark, paralyzing flame at a target within 30 feet. If you
make a successful ranged spell attack, this spell siphons
vitality from the target into you. For the duration, the
target has disadvantage (and you have advantage) on
attack rolls, ability checks, and saving throws made with
Strength, Dexterity, or Constitution. An affected target
makes a Constitution saving throw (with disadvantage) at
the end of its turn, ending the effect on a success.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: BLACK RIBBONS
Level: 1
School: Conjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 40 feet
Components: V, S, M (a piece of ribbon)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Description:
You pull pieces of the plane of shadow into your own
reality, causing a 20-foot cube to fill with inky ribbons that
turn the area into difficult terrain and wrap around nearby
creatures. Any creature that ends its turn in the area
becomes restrained by the ribbons until the end of its next
turn, unless it makes a successful Dexterity saving throw.
Once a creature succeeds on this saving throw, it can’t be
restrained again by the ribbons, but it’s still affected by the
difficult terrain.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: BLACK WELL
Level: 6
School: Necromancy
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 300 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Description:
You summon a seething sphere of dark energy 5 feet
in diameter at a point within range. The sphere pulls
creatures toward it and devours the life force of those it
envelops. Every creature other than you that starts its turn
within 90 feet of the black well must make a successful
Strength saving throw or be pulled 50 feet toward the
well. A creature pulled into the well takes 6d8 necrotic
damage and is stunned; a successful Constitution saving
throw halves the damage and causes the creature to
become incapacitated. A creature that starts its turn inside
the well also makes a Constitution saving throw; the
creature is stunned on a failed save or incapacitated on
a success. An incapacitated creature that leaves the well
recovers immediately and can take actions and reactions
on that turn. A creature takes damage only upon entering
the well—it takes no additional damage for remaining
there—but if it leaves the well and is pulled back in again,
it takes damage again. A total of nine Medium creatures,
three Large creatures, or one Huge creature can be inside
the well’s otherdimensional space at one time. When the
spell’s duration ends, all creatures inside it tumble out in a
heap, landing prone.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 7th level or higher, the damage dealt by the
well increases by 1d8—and the well pulls creatures an
additional 5 feet—for each slot level above 6th.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: CALL SHADOW MASTIFF
Level: 3
School: Conjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S, M (a dog’s tooth)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Description:
You conjure a shadow mastiff from the plane of shadow.
This creature obeys your verbal commands to aid you in
battle or to seek out a specific creature. It has the body
of a large dog with a smooth black coat, 2 feet high at the
shoulder and weighing 200 pounds.
The mastiff is friendly to you and your companions. Roll
initiative for the mastiff; it acts on its own turn. It obeys
simple, verbal commands from you, within its ability to
act. Giving a command takes no action on your part.
The mastiff disappears when it drops to 0 hit points or
when the spell ends.
Medium monstrosity, neutral evil
Armor Class 14
Hit Points 30 (4d8 +12)
Speed 50 ft.
17 (+3) 13 (+1) 17 (+3) 4 (–3) 12 (+1) 13 (+1)
Skills Perception +6, Stealth +8, Survival +5
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 16
Languages understands Common but does not speak
Challenge: 2 (200 XP)
Bay. When a shadow mastiff howls, all creatures within a 300-
foot radius who are not evil monstrosities must succeed on
a DC 13 Wisdom saving throw or be panicked. On each of
its turns, a panicked creature must take the Dash action and
move away from the mastiff by the safest and shortest route,
if such a route exists. If the target moves out of range of this
ability, the effect ends.
Scent. Shadow mastiffs have advantage on all Wisdom checks
that rely on their sense of smell.
Shadow Blend. Shadow mastiffs can hide in any condition of
illumination other than bright light.
Trip. Whenever a shadow mastiff hits an opponent with a bite
attack for the first time on a turn, the opponent falls prone
unless it succeeds on a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw. On a
failed save, the shadow mastiff makes an immediate second
bite attack as a bonus action.
Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target.
Hit: 7 (1d6+3) piercing damage.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: CLAWS OF DARKNESS
Level: cantrip
School: Evocation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Description:
You shape shadows into claws that grow from your fingers
and drip inky blackness. The claws have a reach of 10 feet.
While the spell lasts, you can make a melee spell attack
with them that deals 1d10 cold damage.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: CLOAK OF SHADOW
Level: 1
School: Illusion
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: Self
Components: V
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Description:
You cloak yourself in shadow, giving you advantage
on Dexterity (Stealth) checks against creatures that
rely on sight.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: CONJURE SHADOW TITAN
Level: 7
School: Conjuration
Casting Time: 1 minute
Range: 90 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
Description:
You summon a shadow titan, which appears
in an unoccupied space that you can see
within range. The shadow titan’s statistics are
identical to a stone giant’s, with two differences: its
camouflage ability works in dim light instead of rocky
terrain, and the “rocks” it hurls are composed of
shadow-stuff and cause cold damage.
The shadow titan is friendly to you and your
companions. Roll initiative for the shadow
titan; it acts on its own turn. It obeys verbal
or telepathic commands that you issue to it
(giving a command takes no action on your
part). If you don’t issue any commands to
the shadow titan, it defends itself from hostile
creatures but otherwise takes no actions.
The shadow titan disappears when it drops
to 0 hit points or when the spell ends.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: CREEPING DARKNESS
Level: 8
School: Conjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Description:
You create a great, writhing mass of shadows that move
slowly in a direction you choose. The grasping, shadowy
tendrils occupy up to three 10-foot cubes within range.
The mass has a speed of 20 feet, and it moves each round
at the end of your turn, ignoring difficult terrain. The
shadows can also move vertically or across a ceiling, as
long as they can travel along a surface on which to cling.
All light in this area is reduced to dim light. The surface
covered by the darkness is considered difficult terrain.
If the darkness moves into the space occupied by a living
creature, that creature takes 6d6 necrotic damage and is
restrained. The creature must make a Constitution saving
throw. On a successful save, the creature takes half the
damage and is not restrained. Any creature in the area
of the spell at the start of its turn must make another
Constitution saving throw, taking damage in each
round that it remains in the area. Restrained creatures
move with the darkness, dragged along by the shadowy
tendrils. A creature can take an action on its turn to make
a Strength check against your spell save DC to free itself
from the tendrils.
Bright light can destroy portions of the spell. One 5-foot
cube is destroyed if it takes 12 radiant damage. As long as
at least one 5-foot cube occupies all or part of a creature’s
space, the creature remains restrained.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: DARK DEMENTING
Level: 5
School: Illusion
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V, S, M (a moonstone)
Duration: 10 minutes
Description:
A dark shadow creeps across the target’s mind and leaves a
small bit of shadow essence behind, triggering a profound
fear of the dark. A creature you designate within range
must make a Charisma saving throw. If it fails, the target
becomes frightened of you for the duration. A frightened
creature can repeat the saving throw each time it takes
damage, ending the effect on a success. While frightened
in this way, the creature will not willingly enter or attack
into a space that isn’t brightly lit. If it’s in dim light or
darkness, the creature must either move toward bright
light or create its own (by lighting a lantern, casting a light
spell, or the like).
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: DARK PATH
Level: 2
School: Conjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (a lodestone)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Description:
You conjure a shadowy road between two points within
range to create a bridge or path. This effect can bridge a
chasm or create a smooth path through difficult terrain.
The dark path is 10 feet wide and up to 50 feet long. It
can support up to 500 pounds of weight at one time. A
creature that adds more weight than the path can support
sinks through the path as if it didn’t exist.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: DARKBOLT
Level: 2
School: Evocation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
Description:
You utter a quick invocation to create a black nimbus
around your hand, then hurl three rays of darkness at one
or more targets in range. The rays can be divided between
targets however you like. Make a ranged spell attack for
each target (not each ray); each ray that hits deals 1d10 cold
damage. A target that was hit by one or more rays must
make a successful Constitution saving throw or be unable
to use reactions until the start of its next turn.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell
slot of 3rd level or higher, you create one additional ray for
each slot level above 2nd.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: DOUSE LIGHT
Level: cantrip
School: Transmutation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
Description:
With a simple gesture, you can put out a single small
source of light within range. This spell extinguishes a
torch, a candle, a lantern, or a light or dancing lights cantrip.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: DYING OF THE LIGHT
Level: 7
School: Evocation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V, S, M (a black pearl worth 250 gp)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Description:
A wave of withering darkness erupts from you, filling a
120-foot-radius sphere and extinguishing any nonmagical
light sources in the area. Any light produced by spells
of 6th level or lower is dispelled. Magic items (but not
artifacts) that give off light have that property suppressed
while in the spell’s area. Any light sources brought into the
area during the spell’s duration are likewise extinguished.
Light-producing spells of 7th level or higher function
within the area.
Nonmagical light sources removed from the area can be
reignited. Magic items regain their ability to give off light
1 round after leaving the area. This magical darkness foils
darkvision, except for creatures that can see in magical
darkness, such as devils. You can see within the area of the
spell as if it were brightly lit.
Each creature you choose to be affected that ends its
turn in the darkness takes 4d8 necrotic damage and gains
one level of exhaustion. A successful Constitution saving
throw halves the damage and negates the exhaustion.
HIDE IN ONE’S SHADOW
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: HIDE IN ONE’S SHADOW
Level: 4
School: Transmutation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components: S, M (charcoal)
Duration: 3 hours
Description:
When you touch a willing creature with a piece of charcoal
while casting this spell, the target and everything it carries
blends into and becomes part of the target’s shadow, which
remains discernible, although its body seems to disappear.
The shadow is incorporeal, has no weight, and is immune
to all but psychic and radiant damage. The target remains
aware of its surroundings and can move, but only as a
shadow could move—flowing along surfaces as if the
creature were moving normally. The creature can step out
of the shadow at will, resuming its physical shape in the
shadow’s space and ending the spell.
This spell cannot be cast in an area devoid of light, where
a shadow would not normally appear. Even a faint light
source, such as moonlight or starlight, is sufficient. If that
light source is removed, or if the shadow is flooded with
light in such a way that the physical creature wouldn’t cast
a shadow, the spell ends and the creature reappears in the
shadow’s space.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: LEGION
Level: 3
School: Conjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S, M (a toy soldier)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Description:
You call down a legion of shadowy soldiers in a 10-foot
cube. Their features resemble a mockery of once-living
creatures. Whenever a creature starts its turn inside the
cube or within 5 feet of it, or enters the cube for the first
time on its turn, the conjured shades make an attack
using your melee spell attack modifier; on a hit, the target
takes 3d8 necrotic damage. The space inside the cube is
difficult terrain.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: NEGATIVE IMAGE
Level: 2
School: Conjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V, S, M (a piece of reflective obsidian)
Duration: Instantaneous
Description:
You create a shadow-tunnel between your location and
one other creature you can see within range. You and that
creature instantly swap positions. If the target creature
is unwilling to exchange places with you, it can resist the
effect by making a Charisma saving throw. On a successful
save, the spell has no effect.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: SHADOW ARMOR
Level: 1
School: Abjuration
Casting Time: 1 reaction, which you take when you are
Range: Self
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
Description:
targeted by an attack but before the roll is made
You can siphon energy from the plane of shadow to
protect yourself from an immediate threat. As a reaction,
you pull shadows around yourself to distort reality. The
attack against you is made with disadvantage, and you
have resistance to radiant damage until the start of your
next turn.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: SHADOW BITE
Level: cantrip
School: Illusion
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
Description:
You create a momentary needle of cold, sharp pain in a
creature within range. The target must make a successful
Constitution saving throw or take 1d6 necrotic damage
immediately and have its speed halved until the start of
your next turn.
This spell’s damage increases to 2d6 when you reach 5th
level, 3d6 when you reach 11th level, and 4d6 when you
reach 17th level.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: SHADOW BLINDNESS
Level: cantrip
School: Illusion
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S
Duration: 1 round
Description:
You make a melee spell attack against a creature you
touch that has darkvision as an innate ability; on a hit, the
target’s darkvision is negated until the spell ends. This spell
has no effect against darkvision that derives from a spell or
a magic item. The target retains all of its other senses.
5th-level conjuration (ritual) (shadow)
Casting Time: 1o minutes
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (a piece of black chalk)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
By drawing a circle of black chalk up to 15 feet in diameter
and chanting for one minute during the casting time,
you open a portal directly into the Plane of Shadow. The
portal fills the chalk circle and appears as a vortex of inky
blackness; nothing can be seen through it. Any object or
creature that passes through the portal instantly arrives
safely at the destination. The portal remains open for 1
minute or until you stop concentrating on the spell, and it
can be used to travel between the Plane of Shadow and the
chalk circle, in both directions, as many times as desired
during the spell’s duration.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: SHADOW HANDS
Level: 1
School: Evocation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self (10-foot cone)
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
Description:
A freezing blast of shadow explodes out from you in a
10-foot cone. Any creature caught in the shadow takes
2d4 necrotic damage and is frightened; a successful
Wisdom saving throw halves the damage and negates the
frightened condition.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the damage dealt by the
attack increases by 2d4 for each slot level above 1st.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: SHADOW METAMORPHOSIS
Level: 6
School: Transmutation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Description:
You touch a creature of Huge size or smaller, or a single
object no more than 20 feet in any dimension, and
transform it into malleable shadow-stuff. Objects under
the effect of the spell are not immaterial, but are easy to
shape or compress. One could not walk through a door
that is affected by the spell, but the door could be pulled
aside like a curtain and bypassed, or pulled up like the
bottom edge of a tent flap and crawled under, even if the
door was locked.
An unwilling creature can make a Constitution saving
throw, avoiding the effect on a success. A creature under
the effect of the spell is amorphous and can move through
a space as narrow as 1 inch wide without squeezing. In
dim light or darkness, the creature has advantage on
Dexterity (Stealth) checks. A creature under the effect
of this spell cannot make attacks or cast spells and has
vulnerability to radiant damage.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: SHADOW MONSTERS
Level: 4
School: Illusion
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V, S, M (a doll)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Description:
You choose up to two creatures within range. Each
creature must make a Wisdom saving throw. On a failed
save, the creature perceives its allies as hostile, shadowy
monsters, and it must attack its nearest ally. An affected
creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of
its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 5th level or higher, you can target one
additional creature for each slot level above 4th.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: SHADOW PUPPETS
Level: 2
School: Illusion
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S, M (a pinch of powdered lead)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Description:
You animate the shadow of a creature within range,
causing it to attack that creature. As a bonus action when
you cast the spell, or as an action on subsequent rounds
while you maintain concentration, make a melee spell
attack against the creature. If it hits, the target takes 2d8
psychic damage and must make a successful Intelligence
saving throw or be incapacitated until the start of your
next turn.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 3rd level or higher, the damage increases by
1d8 for each slot level above 2nd.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: SHADOW STEP
Level: 4
School: Conjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Description:
You can open a temporary portal between two darkened
areas, allowing you to move from one such area to another
without crossing the intervening space. If you start your
turn in an area of dim light or darkness, you can open a
portal to another area of dim light or darkness within
range and transport yourself to that spot. Doing this uses
up your movement for the turn, regardless of the distance
traveled. You can use shadow step while prone. Moving in
this manner does not draw opportunity attacks.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: SHADOW TENDRILS
Level: 3
School: Necromancy
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Description:
Writhing ribbons of quasi-real darkness extend from your
hand. As an action, you can make a melee spell attack with
the tendrils against any creature within range. On a hit,
the target takes 2d8 cold damage and must succeed at a
Dexterity saving throw or be restrained.
A creature that starts its turn restrained by the shadow
tendrils takes the cold damage again. It can take an action
to make a Dexterity check against your spell save DC to
free itself. On your turn, as a bonus action, you can drag
a creature restrained by the shadow tendrils up to 15 feet
closer to you.
The tendrils have AC 13 and 12 hit points. They are
immune to bludgeoning damage and to piercing and
slashing damage from nonmagical weapons. They are
vulnerable to radiant damage. If the tendrils are destroyed
by damage but the spell is still in effect, you can re-form
them on your turn as a bonus action.
3rd-level transmutation (ritual) (shadow)
Casting Time: 1 minute
Range: 5 feet
Components: V, S, M (ink made from the blood of
a raven)
Duration: 1 hour
You paint a small door approximately 2 feet square on a
hard surface to create a portal into the void of space. The
portal “peels off ” the surface you painted it on and follows
you when you move, always floating in the air within 5 feet
of you. An icy chill flows out from the portal. You can place
up to 750 pounds of nonliving matter in the portal, where
it stays suspended in the frigid void until you withdraw
it. Items that are still inside the shadow trove when the
duration ends spill out onto the ground. You can designate
a number of creatures up to your Intelligence modifier
who have access to the shadow trove; only you and those
creatures can move objects into the portal.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 4th level or higher, the duration increases by 2
hours for each slot level above 3rd.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: SILHOUETTE
Level: cantrip
School: Illusion
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Description:
You create a shadow play against a screen or wall. The
surface can encompass up to 100 square feet. The number
of creatures that can see the shadow play equals your
Intelligence score. The shadowy figures make no sound
but they can dance, run, move, kiss, fight, and so forth.
Most of the figures are generic types—a rabbit, a dwarf—
but a number of them equal to your Intelligence modifier
can be recognizable as specific individuals.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: SLITHER
Level: 2
School: Transmutation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self
Components: V, M (ashes from a wooden statue of you,
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Description:
made into ink and used to draw your portrait, worth
50 gp)
You momentarily become a shadow (a humanoid-
shaped absence of light, not the undead creature of that
name). You can slide under a door, through a keyhole, or
through any other tiny opening. All of your equipment is
transformed with you, and you can move up to your full
speed during the spell’s duration. While in this form, you
have advantage on Dexterity (Stealth) checks made in
darkness or dim light and you are immune to nonmagical
bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing damage. You can
dismiss this spell by using an action to do so.
If you return to your normal form while in a space too
small for you (such as a mouse hole, sewer pipe, or the
like), you take 4d6 force damage and are pushed to the
nearest space within 50 feet big enough to hold you. If the
distance is greater than 50 feet, you take an extra 1d6 force
damage for every additional 10 feet traveled.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, you can target an
additional willing creature that you touch for each slot
level above 2nd.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: UMBRAL STORM
Level: 9
School: Necromancy
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Description:
You create a channel to a region of the Plane of Shadow
that is inimical to life and order. A storm of dark, raging
entropy fills a 20-foot-radius sphere centered on a point
you can see within range. Any creature that starts its turn
in the storm or enters it for the first time on its turn takes
6d8 necrotic damage and gains one level of exhaustion; a
successful Constitution saving throw halves the damage
and prevents the exhaustion.
You can use a bonus action on your turn to move the area
of the storm 30 feet in any direction.
Shadow
BloodlineYour magic comes from a place drained of color,
where light fights a losing battle against the relentless
encroachment of darkness.
In the distant past, your ancestors were touched by shadow
magic, and it has left its mark on your family bloodline.
Your magic always acts a bit differently from that of other
casters. Your magical fire burns with a deep purple flame
that sheds little light but casts inky shadows. The influence
of shadow magic can be seen in every manifestation of
your work, whether it takes the form of shadowy bonds
tightening around the target of a hold person spell or the
shadows that swirl like storm clouds inside your dimension
door. When you choose this origin at 1st level, you gain
darkvision out to 60 feet. Within that range, you can see in
magical darkness as if it were dim light.
Also starting at 1st level, you can gaze at one creature
within 60 feet of you and by using a bonus action, you
mark that creature with darkness. The marked creature
has disadvantage on its next attack roll or skill check
involving sight, unless it makes a successful Charisma
saving throw. You can use this feature a number of times
equal to your Charisma modifier (minimum of 1). You
regain all expended uses when you finish a long rest.
Starting at 6th level, you have advantage on saving throws
against illusion magic. You can also cast blur or mirror
image by spending 2 sorcery points.
At 14th level, you gain the ability to traverse between
patches of darkness. When the area you occupy is lightly
or heavily obscured, you can use a bonus action to step
through a shadow and emerge from another shadow up to
200 feet away. You can stay inside the shadow connection
for a number of rounds equal to your Charisma modifier
(minimum of 1); while there, you are invisible, nothing can
affect you, and you can’t affect anything else. Each use of
this ability costs you 4 sorcery points.
Beginning at 18th level, by spending 4 sorcery points, you
radiate an aura of shadow that causes everything within
15 feet of you to become lightly obscured because of dim
lighting. Any portion of that area that’s already dimly lit
becomes dark instead. An enemy that starts its turn inside
this aura takes 10 necrotic damage and must succeed on
a Wisdom saving throw or become frightened. The effect
lasts until the start of your next turn.
The control and manipulation of time is an esoteric
and mysterious branch of magic. Spellcasters who
seek to alter time have the potential to perform
incredible deeds. That potential is tempered by the
great danger of intervening with time, which resists
mortal interference. Many gods, too, look unfavorably
on those who try to divert or dam the currents of time,
and their disfavor should never be taken lightly.
SPELL LISTSEsoteric though it may be, the knowledge of how to
manipulate time through magic is not the province of
certain types of spellcasters. Anyone, even paladins, can
amass a repertoire of these spells sufficient to attract the
attention of a higher power.
Several temporal spells are also classified as clockwork
magic. For ease of reference, those entries in the lists carry
a “[clockwork]” identifier.
Temporal Magic
CANTRIP (0 LEVEL)
Quicken (transmutation) [clockwork]
Anticipate weakness (divination)
Auspicious warning (enchantment)
Feather fall (transmutation)
Foretell distraction (divination)
Seer's reaction (divination)
Anticipate attack (divination)
Time step (conjuration) [clockwork]
Accelerate (transmutation) [clockwork]
Reset (transmutation) [clockwork]
Scry ambush (divination)
Time loop (transmutation) [clockwork]
Alter time flow (transmutation)
Time jaunt (transmutation)
Time jump (transmutation) [clockwork]
Time in a bottle (transmutation) [clockwork]
CANTRIPS (0 LEVEL)
Guidance (divination)
Quicken (transmutation) [clockwork]
Anticipate weakness (divination)
Foretell distraction (divination)
Seer's reaction (divination)
Anticipate attack (divination)
Gentle repose (necromancy)
Time step (conjuration) [clockwork]
Accelerate (transmutation) [clockwork]
Anticipate arcana (divination)
Reset (transmutation) [clockwork]
Scry ambush (divination)
Modify memory (enchantment)
Wall of time (abjuration) [clockwork]
Time loop (transmutation) [clockwork]
Alter time flow (transmutation)
Ravages of time (transmutation)
Time jaunt (transmutation)
Time in a bottle (transmutation) [clockwork]
Anticipate weakness (divination)
Seer's reaction (divination)
Anticipate attack (divination)
Decelerate (transmutation) [clockwork]
Accelerate (transmutation) [clockwork]
Quick time (conjuration)
Reset (transmutation) [clockwork]
Scry ambush (divination)
Time loop (transmutation) [clockwork]
Anticipate attack (divination)
Decelerate (transmutation) [clockwork]
Anticipate arcana (divination)
Reset (transmutation) [clockwork]
Anticipate weakness (divination)
Foretell distraction (divination)
Seer's reaction (divination)
Anticipate attack (divination)
Decelerate (transmutation) [clockwork]
Time step (conjuration) [clockwork]
Scry ambush (divination)
CANTRIPS (0 LEVEL)
Guidance (divination)
Quicken (transmutation) [clockwork]
Anticipate weakness (divination)
Auspicious warning (enchantment)
Chronal lance (transmutation) [clockwork]
Feather fall (transmutation)
Foretell distraction (divination)
Seer's reaction (divination)
Anticipate attack (divination)
Decelerate (transmutation) [clockwork]
Accelerate (transmutation) [clockwork]
Anticipate arcana (divination)
Haste (transmutation)
Slow (transmutation)
Scry ambush (divination)
Time vortex (evocation) [clockwork]
Wall of time (abjuration) [clockwork]
Time loop (transmutation) [clockwork]
Ravages of time (transmutation)
Time jump (transmutation) [clockwork
Time in a bottle (transmutation) [clockwork]
Time stop (transmutation) [clockwork]
Anticipate weakness (divination)
Foretell distraction (divination)
Decelerate (transmutation) [clockwork]
Time step (conjuration) [clockwork]
Anticipate arcana (divination)
Scry ambush (divination)
Time vortex (evocation) [clockwork]
Time loop (transmutation) [clockwork]
Time slippage (enchantment) [clockwork]
CANTRIPS (0 LEVEL)
Quicken (transmutation) [clockwork]
Anticipate weakness (divination)
Auspicious warning (enchantment)
Chronal lance (transmutation) [clockwork]
Feather fall (transmutation)
Foretell distraction (divination)
Seer's reaction (divination)
Anticipate attack (divination)
Decelerate (transmutation) [clockwork]
Gentle repose (necromancy)
Time step (conjuration) [clockwork]
Accelerate (transmutation) [clockwork]
Anticipate arcana (divination)
Haste (transmutation)
Slow (transmutation)
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: ALTER TIME FLOW
Level: 7
School: Transmutation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self (30-foot radius)
Components: V, S, M (an hourglass)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Description:
You control the currents of time, affecting all creatures
within 30 feet of yourself. You can choose to deliver either
a haste or slow effect (as the spell) to each creature in the
area. An unwilling creature makes a Constitution saving
throw, avoiding the effect on a success. Each unwilling
creature must make a new saving throw if it remains
in the affected area at the end of its turn. Any affected
creature returns to normal if it exits the area, but if a
creature reenters the area while the spell is still active, it
is subject to the effect of the spell (and receives another
saving throw, if unwilling).
Flickering fate (divination)
Reset (transmutation) [clockwork]
Scry ambush (divination) [temporal]
Time vortex (evocation) [clockwork]
Modify memory (enchantment)
Wall of time (abjuration) [clockwork]
Time loop (transmutation) [clockwork]
Ravages of time (transmutation)
Right the stars (divination)
Time jump (transmutation) [clockwork]
Time slippage (enchantment) [clockwork]
Time in a bottle (transmutation) [clockwork]
Time stop (transmutation) [clockwork]
Spell
DescriptionsThe following spells are presented in alphabetical order.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: ACCELERATE
Level: 3
School: Transmutation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (a toy top)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Description:
Choose up to three willing creatures within range, which
can include you. For the duration of the spell, each target’s
walking speed is doubled. Each target can also use a bonus
action on each of its turns to take the Dash action, and it
has advantage on Dexterity saving throws.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 4th level or higher, you can affect one
additional creature for each slot level above 3rd.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: ANTICIPATE ARCANA
Level: 3
School: Divination
Casting Time: 1 reaction, which you take when an
Range: Self
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
Description:
enemy you can see casts a spell
Your foresight gives you an instant to ready your defenses
against a magical attack. When you cast anticipate arcana,
you have advantage on saving throws against spells and
other magical effects until the start of your next turn.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: ANTICIPATE ATTACK
Level: 2
School: Divination
Casting Time: 1 reaction, which you take when you are
Range: Self
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
Description:
attacked but before the attack roll is made
In a flash of foreknowledge, you spot an oncoming attack
with enough time to avoid it. Upon casting this spell,
you can move up to half your speed without provoking
opportunity attacks. The oncoming attack still occurs
but misses automatically if you are no longer within the
attack’s range, are in a space that's impossible for the
attack to hit, or can’t be targeted by that attack in your new
position. If none of those circumstances apply but the
situation has changed—you have moved into a position
where you have cover, for example—then the attack is
made after taking the new situation into account.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: ANTICIPATE WEAKNESS
Level: 1
School: Divination
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: Self
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
Description:
With a quick glance into the future, you pinpoint where
a gap is about to open in your foe’s defense, and then you
strike. After casting anticipate weakness, you have advantage
on attack rolls until the end of your turn.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: AUSPICIOUS WARNING
Level: 1
School: Enchantment
Casting Time: 1 reaction, which you take when an ally
Range: 30 feet
Components: V
Duration: Instantaneous
Description:
makes an attack roll, ability check, or saving throw
Just in time, you call out a fortunate warning to a creature
within range. The target rolls a d4 and adds the number
rolled to an attack roll, ability check, or saving throw that
it has just made and uses the new result for determining
success or failure.
1st-level transmutation (temporal) (clockwork)
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: 1 minute
You inflict the ravages of aging on up to three creatures
within range, temporarily discomfiting them and making
them appear elderly for a time. Each target must make
a successful Wisdom saving throw, or its walking speed
is halved (round up to the nearest 5-foot increment) and
it has disadvantage on Dexterity checks (but not saving
throws). An affected creature can repeat the saving throw
at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on
a success.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, you can target one
additional creature for each slot level above 1st.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: DECELERATE
Level: 2
School: Transmutation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S, M (a toy top)
Duration: 1 minute
Description:
You slow the flow of time around a creature within range
that you can see. The creature must make a successful
Wisdom saving throw, or its walking speed is halved
(round up to the nearest 5-foot increment). The creature
can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns,
ending the effect on a success. Until the spell ends, on a
failed save the target’s speed is halved again at the start of
each of your turns. For example, if a creature with a speed
of 30 feet fails its initial saving throw, its speed drops to
15 feet. At the start of your next turn, the creature’s speed
drops to 10 feet on a failed save, then to 5 feet on the
following round on another failed save. Decelerate can’t
reduce a creature’s speed to less than 5 feet.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 3rd level or higher, you can affect an additional
creature for each slot level above 2nd.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: FLICKERING FATE
Level: 4
School: Divination
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S
Duration: 1 round
Description:
You or a creature that you touch can see a few seconds
into the future. When the spell is cast, each other creature
within 30 feet of the target must make a Wisdom saving
throw. Those that fail must declare, in initiative order,
what their next action will be. The target of the spell
declares his or her action last, after hearing what all other
creatures will do. Each creature that declared an action
must follow its declaration as closely as possible when
its turn comes. For the duration of the spell, the target
has advantage on attack rolls, ability checks, and saving
throws, and creatures that declared their actions have
disadvantage on attack rolls against the target.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: FORETELL DISTRACTION
Level: 1
School: Divination
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: Self
Components: S
Duration: Instantaneous
Description:
Thanks to your foreknowledge, you know exactly when
your foe will take his or her eyes off you. Casting this
spell has the same effect as making a successful Dexterity
(Stealth) check, provided cover or concealment is available
within 10 feet of you. It doesn’t matter whether enemies
can see you when you cast the spell; they glance away at
just the right moment. You can move up to 10 feet as part
of casting the spell, provided you’re able to move (not
restrained or grappled or reduced to a speed of less than 10
feet for any other reason). This move doesn’t count as part
of your normal movement. After the spell is cast, you must
be in a position where you can remain hidden: a lightly
obscured space, for example, or a space where you have
total cover. Otherwise, enemies see you again immediately
and you’re not hidden.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: QUICKEN
Level: cantrip
School: Transmutation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Description:
You touch one willing creature. Once before the duration
of the spell expires, the target can roll a d4 and add the
number rolled to an initiative roll or Dexterity saving
throw it has just made. The spell then ends.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: QUICK TIME
Level: 4
School: Conjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (any seed)
Duration: Instantaneous
Description:
You make one living creature or plant within range move
rapidly in time compared to you. The target becomes one
year older. For example, you could cast this spell on a
seedling, which causes the plant to sprout from the soil,
or you could cast this spell on a newly hatched duckling,
causing it to become a full-grown duck. If the target is
a creature with an Intelligence of 3 or higher, it must
succeed on a Constitution saving throw to resist the aging.
It can choose to fail the saving throw.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 5th level or higher, you increase the target’s age
by one additional year for each slot level above 4th.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: RAVAGES OF TIME
Level: 7
School: Transmutation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S, M (a wilted flower)
Duration: 24 hours
Description:
You accelerate the aging of one creature within range,
causing it to take on the state of a decrepit version of its
type. The target suffers three levels of exhaustion that
cannot be removed by normal means. A greater restoration
spell partially reverses the effect of this spell, removing one
level of exhaustion. Constructs and undead are unaffected
by this spell, and creatures who live to great age without
negative effects, such as dragons, are also unaffected.
RESET
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: RESET
Level: 4
School: Transmutation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
Description:
Choose up to four creatures within range. If a target is
your ally, it can reroll initiative, keeping whichever of
the two results it prefers. If a target is your enemy, it
must make a successful Wisdom saving throw or reroll
initiative, keeping whichever of the two results you prefer.
Changes to the initiative order go into effect at the start of
the next round.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 5th level or higher, you can affect one
additional creature for each slot level above 4th.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: RIGHT THE STARS
Level: 7
School: Divination
Casting Time: 10 minutes
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (seven black candles and a circle of
Duration: 1 hour
Description:
powdered charred bone or basalt)
You subtly warp the flow of space and time to enhance
your conjurations with cosmic potency. Until the spell
ends, the maximum duration of any conjuration spell you
cast that requires concentration is doubled, any creature
that you summon or create with a conjuration spell has
30 temporary hit points, and you have advantage on
Charisma checks and Charisma saving throws.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: SCRY AMBUSH
Level: 4
School: Divination
Casting Time: 1 reaction, which you take when an
Range: Self
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
Description:
enemy tries to make a surprise attack against you
You foresee your foe’s strike a split second before it occurs.
When you cast this spell successfully, you also designate
a number of your allies that can see or hear you equal to
your spellcasting ability modifier + your proficiency bonus.
Those allies are also not surprised by the attack and can act
normally in the first round of combat.
If you would be surprised, you must make a check using
your spellcasting ability at the moment your reaction
would be triggered. The check DC is equal to the current
initiative count. On a failed check, you are surprised and
can’t use your reaction to cast this spell until after your
next turn. On a successful check, you can use your reaction
to cast this spell immediately.
SEER’S REACTION
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: SEER’S REACTION
Level: 1
School: Divination
Casting Time: 1 reaction, which you take at the start of
Range: Self
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
Description:
another creature’s turn
Your foreknowledge allows you to act before others,
because you knew what was going to happen. When you
cast this spell, make a new initiative roll with a +5 bonus. If
the result is higher than your current initiative, your place
in the initiative order changes accordingly. If the result is
also higher than the current place in the initiative order,
you take your next turn immediately and then use the
higher number starting in the next round.
9th-level transmutation (temporal) (clockwork)
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Sight
Components: V
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You designate a spot within your sight. Time comes under
your control in a 20-foot radius centered on that spot. You
can freeze it, reverse it, or move it forward by as much as
1 minute as long as you maintain concentration. Nothing
and no one, yourself included, can enter the field or affect
what happens inside it. You can choose to end the effect at
any moment as an action on your turn.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: TIME JAUNT
Level: 7
School: Transmutation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self
Components: V
Duration: Special
Description:
When you cast this spell, you step outside the normal time
stream, seeming to vanish as 1 round of time passes. You
can make minor alterations to the scene being played out,
becoming visible for an instant each time you make an
adjustment that aids an ally or hinders foes. To everyone
else, you disappear when the spell is cast, then flicker into
and out of view during the next round, before reappearing
for good in the space you vanished from 1 round later,
whereupon the spell ends. You cannot be attacked by any
means while under the effect of this spell.
As the round progresses, you can choose to bestow a
single effect on each creature involved in the combat,
choosing from the list below. You cannot take any other
actions during the round.
• Give a creature advantage or disadvantage on a saving
throw it is about to make.
• Give a creature advantage or disadvantage on an attack
roll it is about to make.
• Alter the location of a mobile object to provide or
remove cover for a creature.
• Shift objects into the path of a creature; the first 10 feet
of terrain it must travel becomes difficult terrain.
• After an attack roll is determined to be successful,
adjust the angle of the strike or the positioning of the
target, either causing the strike to deal half as much
damage or providing a bonus to damage equal to half
your level.
Example of Combat. An adventuring party encounters
four trolls in their lair. Initiative is rolled, and the order is
fighter 20, cleric 15, rogue 14, trolls 12, wizard 10. Events
unfold in this way:
Fighter draws sword and attacks troll #1.
Cleric casts time jaunt and disappears.
Rogue fires an arrow at troll #2. Cleric yanks the troll’s
arm, turning it broadside for a better target and giving the
rogue advantage on the attack roll. The attack hits.
Troll #1 swings at the fighter. Cleric gives the fighter’s
shield a nudge to raise it just a little faster. Troll has
disadvantage on the attack roll and misses.
Troll #2 throws a spear at the rogue. Cleric flips a table
over between the rogue and the troll, giving the rogue cover
against the attack. Attack roll is still high enough to hit.
Troll #3 charges the fighter. Cleric tips over an open
barrel of pickled herring, strewing the contents across
the floor and making the first 10 feet in the troll’s path
difficult terrain. As a result, troll #3 does not have enough
movement to reach the fighter on its turn.
Troll #4 moves and attacks the fighter, scoring a hit.
Cleric pulls on the troll’s weapon arm so the strike is a
glancing one rather than a direct hit, and the attack deals
half as much damage.
Wizard casts grease on the area where trolls #1 and #4
are standing. Cleric gives each a swift kick to the back
of the knee. Trolls have disadvantage on their Dexterity
saving throws, fail their saves, and fall prone.
Fighter stabs at troll #1, scoring a hit. Cleric gives the
troll’s arm a yank, moving it just enough that the fighter
hits the monster’s chest rather than its shoulder, providing
the fighter a bonus of +7 (half the cleric’s level) on the
attack’s damage.
Cleric pops back into view, occupying the space where
time jaunt was cast, then takes the next turn in round 2 as
normal.
8th-level transmutation (temporal) (clockwork)
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
You touch a construct and throw it forward in time if it
fails a Constitution saving throw. The construct disappears
for 1d4 + 1 rounds, during which time it cannot act or be
acted upon in any way. When the construct returns, it is
unaware that any time has passed.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: TIME LOOP
Level: 6
School: Transmutation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (a metal loop)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Description:
You capture a creature within range in a loop of time.
The target is teleported to the space where it began its
most recent turn. The target then makes a Wisdom saving
throw. On a successful save, the spell ends. On a failed
save, the creature must repeat the activities it undertook
on its previous turn, following the sequence of moves and
actions to the best of its ability. It doesn’t need to move
along the same path or attack the same target, but if it
moved and then attacked on its previous turn, its only
option is to move and then attack on this turn. If the space
where the target began its previous turn is occupied or if
it’s impossible for the target to take the same action (if it
cast a spell but is now unable to do so, for example), the
target becomes incapacitated.
An affected target can repeat the saving throw at the end
of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success.
For as long as the spell lasts, the target teleports back to its
starting point at the start of each of its turns, and it must
repeat the same sequence of moves and actions.
TIME SLIPth-level enchantment (temporal) (clockwork)
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S, M (the heart of a chaotic creature of
challenge rating 5 or higher, worth 500 gp)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You ensnare a creature within range in an insidious trap,
causing different parts of its body to function at different
speeds. The creature must make an Intelligence saving
throw. On a failed save, it is stunned until the end of its
next turn. On a success, the creature’s speed is halved
and it has disadvantage on attack rolls and saving throws
until the end of its next turn. The creature repeats the
saving throw at the end of each of its turns, with the same
effects for success and failure. In addition, the creature has
disadvantage on Strength or Dexterity saving throws but
advantage on Constitution or Charisma saving throws for
the spell’s duration (a side effect of the chronal anomaly
suffusing its body). The spell ends if the creature makes
three successful saves in a row.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: TIME STEP
Level: 2
School: Conjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self
Components: V
Duration: Instantaneous
Description:
You briefly step forward in time. You disappear from your
location and reappear at the start of your next turn in a
location of your choice that you can see within 30 feet of
the space you disappeared from. You can’t be affected by
anything that happens during the time you’re missing,
and you aren’t aware of anything that happens during
that time.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: TIME VORTEX
Level: 4
School: Evocation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 90 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Description:
This spell destabilizes the flow of time, enabling you to
create a vortex of temporal fluctuations that are visible
as a spherical distortion with a 10-foot radius, centered
on a point within range. Each creature in the area when
you cast the spell must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw
or be affected by the time vortex. While the spell lasts, a
creature that enters the sphere or starts its turn inside the
sphere must also succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or be
affected. On a succesful save, it becomes immune to this
casting of the spell.
An affected creature can’t take reactions and rolls a d10 at
the start of its turn to determine its behavior for that turn.
D
1–2 The creature is affected as if by a slow spell until the
start of its next turn.
3–5 The creature is stunned until the start of its next turn.
6–8 The creature’s current initiative result is reduced by
5. The creature begins using this new initiative result
in the next round. Multiple occurrences of this effect
for the same creature are cumulative.
9–10 The creature’s speed is halved (round up to the nearest
5-foot increment) until the start of its next turn.
You can move the temporal vortex 10 feet each round as
a bonus action. An affected creature can repeat the saving
throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on
itself on a success.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell
slot of 5th level or higher, the radius of the sphere increases
by 5 feet for each slot level above 4th.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: WALL OF TIME
Level: 5
School: Abjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V, S, M (an hourglass)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Description:
You create a wall of shimmering, transparent blocks on
a solid surface within range. You can make a straight
wall up to 60 feet long, 20 feet high, and 1 foot thick, or
a cylindrical wall up to 20 feet high, 1 foot thick, and 20
feet in diameter. Nonmagical ranged attacks that cross
the wall vanish into the time stream with no other effect.
Ranged spell attacks and ranged weapon attacks made with
magic weapons that pass through the wall are made with
disadvantage. A creature that intentionally enters or passes
through the wall is affected as if it had just failed its initial
saving throw against a slow spell.
For those who understand its secrets, the flow of time
itself is a powerful source of magical power.
Wizards who strive to master temporal magic view seconds
and minutes not merely as a way to measure life span, but
as a way of manifesting great and mysterious power.
How to Start: If you’re a wizard who wants to become
a timekeeper, you make that decision upon reaching
2nd level, when you are also entitled to choose an
arcane tradition. If you decide to follow the path of the
timekeeper exclusively, you can forego the selection of an
arcane tradition and gain the features of the timekeeper
specialty instead.
You can also pursue the timekeeper specialty in
conjunction with one of the standard arcane traditions.
If you choose to do this, you gain the Savant feature of
your chosen school in addition to Temporal Magic Savant
(described below). Also at 2nd level, you choose whether
to gain the Temporal Points feature (see below) or the
2nd-level feature of your chosen school. Thereafter, at 6th,
10th, and 14th level, you choose between the lowest-level
features still available. For instance, an abjurer might
select Arcane Ward at 2nd level and Temporal Points at
6th level, followed by either Projected Ward or Extended
Magic at 10th level.
Beginning when you select this school at 2nd level, the
gold and time you must spend to copy a temporal spell
into your spellbook is halved.
Starting at 2nd level, you gain access to temporal points,
which you can spend to acquire benefits. You receive 2
temporal points at 2nd level, and you gain 1 additional
point every time you gain a level, to a maximum of 20
points at 20th level. You regain all spent temporal points
when you finish a long rest.
You can spend 1 temporal point as a reaction or a bonus
action on your turn to gain one of the following effects for
1 round:
• You can use a bonus action on your next turn to take
the Dash, Disengage, Hide, or Use an Object action.
• Your Armor Class increases by 2.
• You have advantage on the next Dexterity check you
make.
Optionally, you can spend 2 temporal points as a bonus
action on your turn to grant a creature you touch one of
the listed effects for 1 round.
Beginning at 6th level, when you cast a spell whose
duration is 1 minute or longer, you can spend 1 temporal
point to double the spell’s duration, to a maximum of
24 hours.
At 10th level, you add the haste spell to your spellbook, if
you don’t have it already. From now on, you never suffer
the negative aftereffects of the haste spell and can act
normally when the spell ends.
Also, you can cast haste on yourself without expending a
spell slot. Once you cast haste in this way, you can’t do so
again until you finish a short or long rest. You can still
cast it normally using an available spell slot.
Starting at 14th level, you can choose to ignore the
effect of a temporal spell that would otherwise affect
you. For instance, you can exempt yourself from the
effect of a slow spell cast in the area you occupy. Or,
if you would be affected by a quick time spell, you can
choose to automatically succeed on the saving throw.
Also, you can spend temporal points in the
following ways.
• When you cast a spell with a casting time
of 1 action, you can spend 2 temporal
points to change the casting time for
this casting to 1 bonus action.
• When you must make a saving
throw against a temporal spell,
you can spend 2 temporal points
to succeed on the saving throw
automatically. You can make the
decision to spend the points after
rolling the d20 and seeing the result.
• As a reaction when another creature casts time stop,
you can spend 5 temporal points to gain the ability
to act during the spell’s duration. You and the spell’s
caster alternate taking turns, with the caster acting
first. You have the same restrictions as the caster. If the
caster ends the spell, it ends for everyone; if you take
an action that ends the spell, it ends only for you, not
for the caster.
Winter has considerable power, regardless of how it
presents itself. In its most obvious manifestation, it
is snow and ice driven by howling wind that reduces
visibility to zero and covers everything in a frozen
shell. Just as dangerous as this overt display of power is
winter’s deceptively beautiful form, when an ineffective
sun shines brightly on a serene tableau of glistening trees
and smooth, powder-coated landscapes. Those who
travel unprepared through this misleading peacefulness
are liable to end up blinded or frozen.
Winter Magic
Spell Lists
CANTRIP (0 LEVEL)
Shiver (evocation)
Flurry (transmutation)
Freeze potion (transmutation)
Winter Magic

Boreas's breath (transmutation)
Ice hammer (conjuration)
Snow fort (conjuration)
Protective ice (abjuration)
Brittling (transmutation)
Evercold (necromancy)
Ice fortress (conjuration)
Curse of Boreas (transmutation)
Winter's radiance (evocation)
Glacial fog (evocation)
CANTRIPS (0 LEVEL)
Biting arrow (evocation)
Shiver (evocation)
Breathtaking wind (evocation)
Flurry (transmutation)
Freeze potion (transmutation)
Snowy coat (transmutation)
Boreas's breath (transmutation)
Creeping ice (conjuration)
Sculpt snow (transmutation)
Frostbitten fingers (evocation)
Ice burn (conjuration)
Sleet storm (conjuration)
Brittling (transmutation)
Fusillade of ice (evocation)
Ice storm (evocation)
Snow boulder (transmutation)
Wintry glide (conjuration)
Clash of glaciers (evocation)
Control ice (transmutation)
Winterdark (transmutation)
Winter's radiance (evocation)
Glacial fog (evocation)
Triumph of ice (transmutation)
Breathtaking wind (evocation)
Flurry (transmutation)
Snowy coat (transmutation)
Boreas's breath (transmutation)
Creeping ice (conjuration)
Ice hammer (conjuration)
Frostbitten fingers (evocation)
Fusillade of ice (evocation)
Snow boulder (transmutation)
Wintry glide (conjuration)
CANTRIPS (0 LEVEL)
Biting arrow (evocation)
Chill touch (necromancy)
Ray of frost (evocation)
Shiver (evocation)
Breathtaking wind (evocation)
Freeze potion (transmutation)
Icicle daggers (conjuration)

Creeping ice (conjuration)
Entomb in ice (evocation)
Sculpt snow (transmutation)
Sheen of ice (evocation)
Snow fort (conjuration)
Freeze blood (transmutation)
Frostbitten fingers (evocation)
Ice burn (conjuration)
Sleet storm (conjuration)
Steal warmth (necromancy)
Deep freeze (evocation)
Evercold (necromancy)
Fusillade of ice (evocation)
Ice storm (evocation)
Clash of glaciers (evocation)
Cone of cold (evocation)
Control ice (transmutation)
Frostbite (evocation)
Ice fortress (conjuration)
Curse of Boreas (transmutation)
Winterdark (transmutation)
Winter's radiance (evocation)
Blizzard (conjuration)
Glacial fog (evocation)
Triumph of ice (transmutation)
Glacial cascade (evocation)
CANTRIP (0 LEVEL)
Chill touch (necromancy)
Breathtaking wind (evocation)
Flurry (transmutation)
Freeze potion (transmutation)
Icicle daggers (conjuration)
Creeping ice (conjuration)
Entomb in ice (evocation)
Sheen of ice (evocation)
Freeze blood (transmutation)
Frostbitten fingers (evocation)
Ice burn (conjuration)
Steal warmth (necromancy)
Evercold (necromancy)
Fusillade of ice (evocation)
Clash of glaciers (evocation)
Frostbite (evocation)
Winterdark (transmutation)
Blizzard (conjuration)
CANTRIPS (0 LEVEL)
Biting arrow (evocation)
Chill touch (necromancy)
Ray of frost (evocation)
Shiver (evocation)
Breathtaking wind (evocation)
Freeze potion (transmutation)
Icicle daggers (conjuration)

Boreas's breath (transmutation)
Creeping ice (conjuration)
Entomb in ice (evocation)
Sculpt snow (transmutation)
Sheen of ice (evocation)
Snow fort (conjuration)
Freeze blood (transmutation)
Frostbitten fingers (evocation)
Ice burn (conjuration)
Sleet storm (conjuration)
Steal warmth (necromancy)
Brittling (transmutation)
Deep freeze (evocation)
Evercold (necromancy)
Fusillade of ice (evocation)
Ice storm (evocation)
Wintry glide (conjuration)
Clash of glaciers (evocation)
Cone of cold (evocation)
Control ice (transmutation)
Frostbite (evocation)
Ice fortress (conjuration)
Curse of Boreas (transmutation)
Winterdark (transmutation)
Winter's radiance (evocation)
Blizzard (conjuration)
Glacial fog (evocation)
Triumph of ice (transmutation)
Glacial cascade (evocation)
Spell
DescriptionsThe following spells are presented in alphabetical order.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: BITING ARROW
Level: cantrip
School: Evocation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self
Components: V, M (an arrow or a thrown weapon)
Duration: 1 round
Description:
As part of the action used to cast this spell, you make
a ranged weapon attack with a bow, a crossbow, or a
thrown weapon. The effect is limited to a range of 120 feet
despite the weapon’s range, and the attack is made with
disadvantage if the target is in the weapon’s long range.
If the weapon attack hits, it deals damage as usual. In
addition, the target becomes coated in thin frost until the
start of your next turn. If the target uses its reaction before
the start of your next turn, it immediately takes 1d6 cold
damage and the spell ends.
The spell’s damage, for both the ranged attack and the
cold damage, increases by 1d6 when you reach 5th level
(+1d6 and 2d6), 11th level (+2d6 and 3d6), and 17th level
(+3d6 and 4d6).
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: BLIZZARD
Level: 7
School: Conjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 100 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Description:
A howling storm of thick snow and ice crystals appears
in a cylinder 40 feet high and 40 feet in diameter within
range. The area is heavily obscured by the swirling snow.
When the storm appears, each creature in the area takes
8d8 cold damage, or half as much damage with a successful
Constitution saving throw. A creature also makes this
saving throw and takes damage when it enters the area for
the first time on a turn or ends its turn there. In addition,
a creature that takes cold damage from this spell has
disadvantage on Constitution saving throws to maintain
concentration until the start of its next turn.
BOREAS’S BREATH
2nd-level transmutation (ritual) (winter)
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
You freeze standing water in a 20-foot cube or running
water in a 10-foot cube centered on you. The water turns
to solid ice. The surface becomes difficult terrain, and
any creature that ends its turn on the ice must make a
successful DC 10 Dexterity saving throw or fall prone.
Creatures that are partially submerged in the water when
it freezes become restrained. While restrained in this way,
a creature takes 1d6 cold damage at the end of its turn.
It can break free by using an action to make a successful
Strength check against your spell save DC.
Creatures that are fully submerged in the water when it
freezes become incapacitated and cannot breathe. While
incapacitated in this way, a creature takes 2d6 cold damage
at the end of its turn. A trapped creature makes a DC 20
Strength saving throw after taking this damage at the end
of its turn, breaking free from the ice on a success.
The ice has AC 10 and 15 hit points. It is vulnerable to
fire damage, has resistance to nonmagical slashing and
piercing damage, and is immune to cold, necrotic, poison,
psychic, and thunder damage.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell
slot of 3rd level or higher, the size of the cube increases by
10 feet for each slot level above 2nd.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: BREATHTAKING WIND
Level: 1
School: Evocation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Description:
You target a creature with a blast of wintry air. That
creature must make a successful Constitution saving
throw or become unable to speak or cast spells with a vocal
component for the duration of the spell.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: BRITTLING
Level: 4
School: Transmutation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (an icicle)
Duration: Instantaneous
Description:
This spell uses biting cold to make a metal or stone object
you touch become brittle and more easily shattered. The
object’s hit points are reduced by a number equal to your
level as a spellcaster, and Strength checks to shatter or
break the object are made with advantage if they occur
within 1 minute of the spell’s casting. If the object isn’t
shattered during this time, it reverts to the state it was in
before the spell was cast.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: CLASH OF GLACIERS
Level: 5
School: Evocation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self (100-foot line)
Components: V, S, M (a piece of cracked glass)
Duration: Instantaneous
Description:
You conjure up icy boulders that crush creatures in a
line 100 feet long. Each creature in the area takes 5d6
bludgeoning damage plus 5d6 cold damage, or half the
damage with a successful Dexterity saving throw.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 6th level or higher, the damage increases by
1d6 for each slot level above 5th. You decide whether each
extra die deals bludgeoning or cold damage.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: CONTROL ICE
Level: 5
School: Transmutation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 300 feet
Components: V, S, M (a cube of white wax)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Description:
Until the spell ends, you control any ice inside an area you
choose within range that can be as large as a cube 100 feet
on a side. You choose one of the following three effects
when you cast this spell. As an action on each of your
turns thereafter, you can use the same effect or choose
a different one. Any alterations made to the ice remain
after the spell ends, but can be altered by other effects
(temperature, seismic action, or another application of
this spell, for example).
Crack. You cause ice in the area to crack and splinter.
On level terrain, this effect turns the ice into difficult
terrain, possibly producing other hazards, depending
on the terrain and the nature of the ice—ice over a deep
chasm might open onto a pit, while ice over water can
break into individual floes, for example. Using this effect
on cliffs, walls, or ceilings made of ice can cause collapse,
dealing 4d10 bludgeoning damage to creatures in the area
below the collapse, or half the damage with a successful
Dexterity saving throw. After such a collapse, the area
where the fallen ice collects becomes difficult terrain.
Reshape. You cause ice in a portion of the area to
rapidly melt, move, and re-form into whatever shape
you command. You can block holes, open tunnels, form
bridges, remove difficult terrain, or otherwise alter the
form of the ice in the area. You can cause ice to become
slippery, making it difficult terrain, or dry to remove
difficult terrain. You can fill a hole up to a 20-foot cube,
or create 20 feet (up to 20 feet wide) of a bridge across a
chasm, or raise a 20-foot-tall pillar of ice (up to 20 feet
square). You can continue this action on consecutive
rounds to increase the size of the affected area while you
maintain concentration on the spell.
Thicken/Thin. You cause existing ice to increase or
decrease in thickness, up to 1 inch per round over some or
all of the total area, either making the surface stronger or
creating thin ice that is hazardous to walk on.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: CREEPING ICE
Level: 2
School: Conjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Description:
You create a sheet of ice that covers a 5-foot square within
range and lasts for the spell’s duration. The iced area is
difficult terrain.
A creature in the area where you cast the spell must make
a successful Strength saving throw or be restrained by ice
that rapidly encases it. A creature restrained by the ice
takes 2d6 cold damage at the start of its turn. A restrained
creature can use an action to make a Strength check
against your spell save DC, freeing itself on a success, but
it has disadvantage on this check. The creature can also be
freed (and the spell ended) by dealing at least 20 damage to
the ice. The restrained creature takes half the damage from
any attacks against the ice.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 4th to 6th level, the area increases to a 10-foot
square, the ice deals 4d6 cold damage, and 40 damage is
needed to melt each 5-foot square. When you cast this spell
using a spell slot of 7th level or higher, the area increases
to a 20-foot square, the ice deals 6d6 cold damage, and 60
damage is needed to melt each 5-foot square.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: CURSE OF BOREAS
Level: 6
School: Transmutation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 100 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Permanent
Description:
You designate a creature within range that you can see.
If the target fails a Charisma saving throw, it and its
equipment are frozen solid, becoming an inert statue of
ice. The creature is effectively paralyzed, but mental activity
does not cease, and signs of life are detectable; the creature
still breathes and its heart continues to beat, though both
acts are almost imperceptible. If the ice statue is broken
or damaged while frozen, the creature will have matching
damage or injury when returned to its original state. Dispel
magic can’t end this spell, but it can allow the target to
speak (but not move or cast spells) for a number of rounds
equal to the spell slot used. Greater restoration or more
potent magic is needed to free a creature from the ice.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: DEEP FREEZE
Level: 4
School: Evocation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S, M (a piece of ice or quartz)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Description:
You send a blast of deep cold at a creature, dealing 4d8
cold damage to it and encasing it in ice. An encased
creature is grappled and takes an extra 2d8 cold damage
at the start of its turn every round it remains encased. If
the target of this spell makes a successful Dexterity saving
throw, it takes half the damage and none of the extra
damage and is not encased in ice, but the ice that clings to
its body reduces its speed by 15 feet (to a minimum speed
of 5 feet) until it takes an action to remove the ice.
A grappled target can take an action to make a Strength
check against your spell save DC, breaking free of the ice
on a success. Alternatively, another creature within 5 feet
of the target can make a Strength check on its turn, freeing
the creature on a success. The ice can also be attacked. It
has AC 12, 10 hit points, and vulnerability to fire damage.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 5th level or higher, you can target one
additional creature for each slot level above 4th.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: ENTOMB IN ICE
Level: 2
School: Evocation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Description:
You trap a creature in a thick coating of ice. The target
must succeed on a Dexterity saving throw or be restrained
for the duration. At the beginning of the trapped
creature’s turn, it takes 2d4 cold damage. On its turn,
an entombed creature (or an ally) can take an action to
make a Strength check against your spell save DC. On a
success, the entombed creature is freed. The icy tomb is
also susceptible to damage and vulnerable to fire. Damage
equal to your spell save DC will destroy the tomb and free
the target.
At Higher Levels.
When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 4th level or higher, you can target one
additional creature for each slot level above 3rd. The
creatures must be within 30 feet of each other when you
target them.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: EVERCOLD
Level: 4
School: Necromancy
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (an insect that froze to death)
Duration: Until dispelled
Description:
You target a creature within the spell’s range, and that
creature must make a successful Wisdom saving throw
or take 1d6 cold damage. In addition, the target is cursed
to feel as if it’s exposed to extreme cold. For the duration
of evercold, the target must make a successful DC 10
Constitution saving throw at the end of each hour or gain
one level of exhaustion. The target has advantage on the
hourly saving throws if wearing suitable cold-weather
clothing, but it has disadvantage on saving throws against
other spells and magic that deal cold damage (regardless of
its clothing) for the spell’s duration.
The spell can be ended by its caster or by dispel magic or
remove curse.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: FLURRY
Level: 1
School: Transmutation
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (a fleck of quartz)
Duration: 1 round
Description:
A flurry of snow surrounds you and extends to a 5-foot
radius around you. While it lasts, anyone trying to see into,
out of, or through the affected area (including you) has
disadvantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks and attack
rolls.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: FREEZE BLOOD
Level: 3
School: Transmutation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Description:
When you cast freeze blood as a successful melee spell
attack against a living creature with a circulatory system,
the creature’s blood freezes. For the spell’s duration, the
affected creature’s speed is halved and it takes 2d6 cold
damage at the start of each of its turns. If the creature
takes bludgeoning damage from a critical hit, the attack’s
damage dice are rolled three times instead of twice.
At the end of each of its turns, the creature can make a
Constitution saving throw, ending the effect on a success.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: FREEZE POTION
Level: 1
School: Transmutation
Casting Time: 1 reaction, which you take when you see a
Range: 25 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
Description:
creature within range about to consume a liquid
A blue spark flies from your hand and strikes a potion vial,
drinking horn, waterskin, or similar container, instantly
freezing the contents. The substance melts normally
thereafter and is not otherwise harmed, but it can’t be
consumed while it’s frozen.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the range increases by 5
feet for each slot level above 1st.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: FROSTBITE
Level: 5
School: Evocation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 90 feet
Components: V, S, M (a strip of dried flesh that has been
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Description:
frozen at least once)
Biting cold settles onto a creature you can see. The creature
must make a Constitution saving throw. On a failed save,
the creature takes 4d8 cold damage. In addition, for the
duration of the spell, the creature’s speed is halved, it has
disadvantage on attack rolls and ability checks, and it takes
another 4d8 cold damage at the start of each of its turns.
An affected creature can repeat the saving throw at the
start of each of its turns. The effect ends when the creature
makes its third successful save.
Creatures that are immune to cold damage are
unaffected by frostbite.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 6th level or higher, you can target two
additional creatures for each slot level above 5th.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: FROSTBITTEN FINGERS
Level: 3
School: Evocation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
Description:
You fire a ray of intense cold that instantly induces
frostbite. With a successful ranged spell attack, this
spell causes one of the target’s hands to lose sensation.
When the spell is cast, the target must make a successful
Dexterity saving throw to maintain its grip on any object
with the affected hand. The saving throw must be repeated
every time the target tries to manipulate, wield, or pick up
an item with the affected hand. Additionally, the target has
disadvantage on Dexterity checks or Strength checks that
require the use of both hands.
After every 10 minutes of being affected by frostbitten
fingers, the target must make a successful Constitution
saving throw, or take 1d6 cold damage and lose one of the
fingers on the affected hand, beginning with the pinkie.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: FUSILLADE OF ICE
Level: 4
School: Evocation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self (30-foot cone)
Components: V, S, M (a dagger shaped like an icicle)
Duration: Instantaneous
Description:
You unleash a spray of razor-sharp ice shards. Each
creature in the 30-foot cone takes 4d6 cold damage and
3d6 piercing damage, or half as much damage with a
successful Dexterity saving throw.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 5th level or higher, the damage increases by
your choice of 1d6 cold damage or 1d6 piercing damage
for each slot level above 4th. You can make a different
choice (cold damage or piercing damage) for each slot level
above 4th. Casting this spell with a spell slot of 6th level or
higher increases the range to a 60-foot cone.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: GLACIAL CASCADE
Level: 8
School: Evocation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self (30-foot-radius sphere)
Components: V, S, M (a piece of alexandrite)
Duration: Instantaneous
Description:
By harnessing the power of ice and frost, you emanate
pure cold, filling a 30-foot-radius sphere. Creatures other
than you in the sphere take 10d8 cold damage, or half as
much damage with a successful Constitution saving throw.
A creature killed by this spell is transformed into ice,
leaving behind no trace of its original body.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: GLACIAL FOG
Level: 7
School: Evocation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 100 feet
Components: V, S, M (crystalline statue of a polar bear
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Description:
worth at least 25 gp)
As you cast this spell, a 30-foot-radius sphere centered on
a point within range becomes covered in a frigid fog. Each
creature that is in the area at the start of its turn while the
spell remains in effect must make a Constitution saving
throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 12d6 cold damage
and gains one level of exhaustion, and it has disadvantage
on Perception checks until the start of its next turn. On
a successful save, the creature takes half the damage and
ignores the other effects.
Stored devices and tools are all frozen by the fog:
crossbow mechanisms become sluggish, weapons are stuck
in scabbards, potions turn to ice, bag cords freeze together,
and so forth. Such items require the application of heat for
1 round or longer in order to become useful again.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 8th level or higher, the damage increases by
1d6 for each slot level above 7th.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: ICE BURN
Level: 3
School: Conjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
Description:
You instill deep cold into the body of a creature within
range, damaging it and impairing joints and muscles. The
target takes 3d10 cold damage and has disadvantage on all
Dexterity checks and Dexterity saving throws until this
damage is healed.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 4th level or higher, you can target one
additional creature within range for each slot level above
3rd. Each additional target must be within 30 feet of at
least one other target.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: ICE FORTRESS
Level: 5
School: Conjuration
Casting Time: 1 minute
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S, M (a miniature keep carved from ice
Duration: Until dispelled or destroyed
Description:
or glass that is consumed in the casting)
A gleaming fortress of ice springs from a square area of
ground that you can see within range. It is a 10-foot cube
(including floor and roof). The fortress can’t overlap
any other structures, but any creatures in its space are
harmlessly lifted up as the ice rises into position. The walls
are made of ice (AC 13), have 120 hit points each, and are
immune to cold, necrotic, poison, and psychic damage.
Reducing a wall to 0 hit points destroys it and has a 50
percent chance to cause the roof to collapse. A damaged
wall can be repaired by casting a spell that deals cold
damage on it, on a point-for-point basis.
Each wall has two arrow slits. One wall also includes
an ice door with an arcane lock. You designate at the
time of the fort’s creation which creatures can enter the
fortification. The door has AC 18 and 60 hit points, or
it can be broken open with a successful DC 25 Strength
(Athletics) check (DC 15 if the arcane lock is dispelled).
The fortress catches and reflects light, so that creatures
outside the fortress who rely on sight have disadvantage
on Perception checks and attack rolls made against those
within the fortress if it’s in an area of bright sunlight.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 6th level or higher, you can increase the
length or width of the fortification by 5 feet for every slot
level above 5th. You can make a different choice (width or
length) for each slot level above 5th.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: ICE HAMMER
Level: 2
School: Conjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (a miniature hammer carved from
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
Description:
ice or glass)
When you cast ice hammer, a warhammer fashioned from
ice appears in your hands. This weapon functions as a
standard warhammer in all ways, and it deals an extra 1d10
cold damage on a hit. You can drop the warhammer or give
it to another creature.
The warhammer melts and is destroyed when it or its
user accumulates 20 or more fire damage, or when the
spell ends.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell
slot of 3rd level or higher, you can create one additional
hammer for each slot level above 2nd. Alternatively, you
can create half as many hammers (round down), but each
is oversized (1d10 bludgeoning damage, or 1d12 if wielded
with two hands, plus 2d8 cold damage). Medium or
smaller creatures have disadvantage when using oversized
weapons, even if they are proficient with them.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: ICICLE DAGGERS
Level: 1
School: Conjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (a miniature dagger shaped like
Duration: Instantaneous or special
Description:
an icicle)
When you cast this spell, three icicles appear in your hand.
Each icicle has the same properties as a dagger but deals an
extra 1d4 cold damage on a hit.
The icicle daggers melt a few seconds after leaving your
hand, making it impossible for other creatures to wield
them. If the surrounding temperature is at or below
freezing, the daggers last for 1 hour. They melt instantly if
you take 10 or more fire damage.
At Higher Levels. If you cast this spell using a spell
slot of 2nd level or higher, you can create two additional
daggers for each slot level above 1st. If you cast this spell
using a spell slot of 4th level or higher, daggers that leave
your hand don’t melt until the start of your next turn.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: PROTECTIVE ICE
Level: 3
School: Abjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (a seed encased in ice or glass)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
Description:
When you cast protective ice, you encase a willing target in
icy, medium armor equivalent to a breastplate (AC 14). A
creature without the appropriate armor proficiency has
the usual penalties. If the target is already wearing armor,
it only uses the better of the two armor classes.
A creature striking a target encased in protective ice with a
melee attack while within 5 feet of it takes 1d6 cold damage.
If the armor’s wearer takes fire damage, an equal amount
of damage is done to the armor, which has 30 hit points
and is damaged only when its wearer takes fire damage.
Damaged ice can be repaired by casting a spell that deals
cold damage on it, on a point-for-point basis, but the
armor can’t have more than 30 points repaired.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a
4th-level spell slot, it creates splint armor (AC 17, 40 hit
points). If you cast this spell using a 5th-level spell slot, it
creates plate armor (AC 18, 50 hit points). The armor’s hit
points increase by 10 for each spell slot above 5th, but the
AC remains 18. Additionally, if you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 4th level or higher, the armor deals an extra +2
cold damage for each spell slot above 3rd.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: SCULPT SNOW
Level: 2
School: Transmutation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
Description:
When you cast sculpt snow in an area filled with snow, you
can create one Large object, two Medium objects, or four
smaller objects from snow. With a casting time of 1 action,
your sculptings bear only a crude resemblance to generic
creatures or objects. If you increase the casting time to 1
minute, your creations take on a more realistic appearance
and can even vaguely resemble specific creatures; the
resemblance isn’t strong enough to fool anyone, but the
creature can be recognized. The sculptures are as durable
as a typical snowman.
Sculptures created by this spell can be animated with
animate objects or comparable magic. Animated sculptures
gain the AC, hit points, and other attributes provided by
that spell. When they attack, they deal normal damage plus
a similar amount of cold damage; an animated Medium
sculpture, for example, deals 2d6 + 1 bludgeoning damage
plus 2d6 + 1 cold damage.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, you can sculpt one
additional Large object for each slot level above 2nd. Two
Large objects can be replaced with one Huge object.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: SHEEN OF ICE
Level: 2
School: Evocation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S, M (water within a glass globe)
Duration: 1 minute
Description:
A small icy globe shoots from your finger to a point within
range and then explodes in a spray of ice. Each creature
within 20 feet of that point must make a successful
Dexterity saving throw or become coated in ice for 1
minute. Ice-coated creatures move at half speed. An
invisible creature becomes outlined by the ice so that it
loses the benefits of invisibility while the ice remains. The
spell ends for a specific creature if that creature takes 5 or
more fire damage.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: SHIVER
Level: cantrip
School: Evocation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 ft.
Components: V, S, M (humanoid tooth)
Duration: 1 round
Description:
You fill a humanoid creature with such cold that its teeth
begin to chatter and its body shakes uncontrollably. Roll
5d8; the total is the maximum hit points of a creature this
spell can affect. The affected creature must succeed on a
Constitution saving throw, or it cannot cast a spell or load
a missile weapon until the end of your next turn. Once a
creature has been affected by this spell, it is immune to
further castings of this spell for 24 hours.
The maximum hit points you can affect increases by 4d8
when you reach 5th level (9d8), 11th level (13d8), and 17th
level (17d8).
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: SNOW BOULDER
Level: 4
School: Transmutation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 90 feet
Components: V, S, M (a handful of snow)
Duration: Concentration, up to 4 rounds
Description:
A ball of snow forms 5 feet away from you and rolls in the
direction you point at a speed of 30 feet, growing larger
as it moves. To roll the boulder into a creature, you must
make a successful ranged spell attack. If the boulder hits,
the creature must make a successful Dexterity saving
throw or be knocked prone and take the damage indicated
below. Hitting a creature doesn’t stop the snow boulder’s
movement or impede its growth, as long as you continue
to maintain concentration on the effect. When the spell
ends, the boulder stops moving.
1 Small 1d6 bludgeoning
2 Medium 2d6 bludgeoning
3 Large 4d6 bludgeoning
4 Huge 6d6 bludgeoning
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: SNOW FORT
Level: 2
School: Conjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V, S, M (a ring carved from chalk or
Duration: Instantaneous
Description:
white stone)
This spell creates a simple “fort” from packed snow. The
snow fort springs from the ground in an unoccupied space
within range. It encircles a 10-foot area with sloping walls
4 feet high. The fort provides half cover (+2 AC) against
ranged and melee attacks coming from outside the fort.
The walls have AC 12, 30 hit points per side, are immune
to cold, necrotic, poison, and psychic damage, and are
vulnerable to fire damage. A damaged wall can be repaired
by casting a spell that deals cold damage on it, on a point-
for-point basis, up to a maximum of 30 points.
The spell also creates a dozen snowballs that can be
thrown (range 20/60) and that deal 1d4 bludgeoning
damage plus 1d4 cold damage on a hit.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: SNOWY COAT
Level: 1
School: Transmutation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
Description:
This spell makes a slight alteration to a target creature’s
appearance that gives it advantage on Dexterity (Stealth)
checks to hide in snowy terrain. In addition, the target can
use a bonus action to make itself invisible in snowy terrain
for 1 minute. The spell ends at the end of the minute or
when the creature attacks or casts a spell.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, you can target one
additional creature for each slot level above 1st.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: STEAL WARMTH
Level: 3
School: Necromancy
Casting Time: 1 reaction, which you take when you take
Range: Self
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
Description:
cold damage from magic
When you cast steal warmth after taking cold damage, you
select a living creature within 5 feet of you. That creature
takes the cold damage instead, or half the damage with a
successful Constitution saving throw. You regain hit points
equal to the amount of cold damage taken by the target.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 4th level or higher, the distance to the target
you can affect with this spell increases by 5 feet for each
slot level above 3rd.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: TRIUMPH OF ICE
Level: 7
School: Transmutation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 100 feet
Components: V, S, M (a stone extracted from glacial ice)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Description:
You transform one of the four elements—air, earth, fire, or
water—into ice or snow. The affected area is a sphere with
a radius of 100 feet, centered on you. The specific effect
depends on the element you choose.
Air. Vapor condenses into snowfall. If the effect of a fog
cloud spell, a stinking cloud, or similar magic is in the area,
this spell negates it. A creature of elemental air within
range takes 8d6 cold damage—and, if airborne, it must
make a successful Constitution saving throw at the start of
its turn to avoid being knocked prone (no falling damage).
Earth. Soil freezes into permafrost to a depth of 10 feet.
A creature burrowing through the area has its speed halved
until the area thaws, unless it can burrow through solid
rock. A creature of elemental earth within range must
make a successful Constitution saving throw or take 8d6
cold damage.
Fire. Flames or other sources of extreme heat (such as
molten lava) on the ground within range transform into
shards of ice, and the area they occupy becomes difficult
terrain. Each creature in the previously burning area
takes 2d6 slashing damage when the spell is cast and
1d6 slashing damage for every 5 feet it moves in the area
(unless it is not hindered by icy terrain) until the spell ends;
a successful Dexterity saving throw reduces the slashing
damage by half. A creature of elemental fire within range
must make a successful Constitution saving throw or take
8d6 cold damage and be stunned for 1d6 rounds.
Water. Open water (a pond, lake, or river) freezes to
a depth of 4 feet. A creature on the surface of the water
when it freezes must make a successful Dexterity saving
throw to avoid being trapped in the ice. A trapped creature
can free itself by using an action to make a successful
Strength (Athletics) check. A creature of elemental
water within range takes no damage from the spell but
is paralyzed for 1d6 rounds unless it makes a successful
Constitution saving throw, and it treats the affected area
as difficult terrain.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: WINTERDARK
Level: 6
School: Transmutation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
Description:
This spell invokes the deepest part of night on the winter
solstice. You target a 40-foot-radius, 60-foot-high cylinder
centered on a point within range, which is plunged into
darkness and unbearable cold. Each creature in the
area when you cast the spell and at the start of its turn
must make a successful Constitution saving throw or
take 1d6 cold damage and gain one level of exhaustion.
Creatures immune to cold damage are also immune to the
exhaustion effect, as are creatures wearing cold weather
gear or otherwise adapted for a cold environment.
As a bonus action, you can move the center of the effect
20 feet.
WINTER’S RADIANCE
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: WINTER’S RADIANCE
Level: 6
School: Evocation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 400 feet (30-foot cube)
Components: V, S, M (a piece of polished glass)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Description:
When you cast this spell, the piercing rays of a day’s worth
of sunlight reflecting off fresh snow blankets the area.
A creature caught in the spell’s area must succeed on a
Constitution saving throw or have disadvantage on ranged
attacks and Wisdom (Perception) checks for the duration
of the spell. In addition, an affected creature’s vision is
hampered such that foes it targets are treated as having
three-quarters cover.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: WINTRY GLIDE
Level: 4
School: Conjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Description:
Upon casting wintry glide, you can travel via ice or snow
without crossing the intervening space. If you are adjacent
to a mass of ice or snow, you can enter it by expending
5 feet of movement. By expending another 5 feet of
movement, you can immediately exit from that mass at
any point—within 500 feet—that’s part of the contiguous
mass of ice or snow. When you enter the ice or snow, you
instantly know the extent of the material within 500 feet.
You must have at least 10 feet of movement available when
you cast the spell, or it fails.
If the mass of ice or snow is destroyed while you are
transiting it, you must make a successful Constitution
saving throw against your spell save DC to avoid taking
4d6 bludgeoning damage and falling prone at the
midpoint of a line between
your entrance point
and your intended
exit point.
This is typically a powerful entity of winter, such as the
avatar of Boreas (Tome of Beasts, p. 42), but prominent
ice maidens (Tome of Beasts, p. 254), ice devils, and other
creatures associated with the cold can also serve as patrons.
Your patron seeks to immerse the world in eternal winter
or bring about some similar fate. Though you might not
share this goal, you have sworn fealty to this being, and
you act as its agent to spread winter wherever you roam.
The Frozen One lets you choose from an expanded list of
spells when you learn a warlock spell. The following spells
are added to the warlock spell list for you.
1st create or destroy water, snowy coat*
2nd Boreas's breath*, ice hammer*
3rd protective ice*, sleet storm
4th ice storm, wintry glide*
5th cone of cold, ice fortress*
* Described in this book
Starting at 1st level, you can bring a small chunk of ice to
your aid. As a reaction when a creature makes a weapon
attack against you, the ice shields you from the attack. The
creature has disadvantage on its attack roll. Regardless
of the result of the attack, the ice melts away immediately
afterward. Once you use this feature, you can’t use it again
until you finish a short or long rest.
Beginning at 6th level, as part of your move, you can
leave a layer of ice on the ground along your path. This
ice persists for 1 minute. A creature other than you that
enters a space of ice must make a successful Dexterity
saving throw against your spell save DC or fall prone in
that space. Once you use this feature, you can’t use it again
until you finish a short or long rest.
Beginning at 10th level, your skin takes on an icy sheen.
You are immune to cold damage, and you have advantage
on Strength and Dexterity checks you make to escape
from being grappled.
At 3rd level, the Frozen One bestows a gift upon you for
your loyal service. You gain one of the following features of
your choice.
Pact of the Blade. Your pact weapon has a patina of
ice, and small icicles dangle from it. When you create or
summon your pact weapon, you can choose whether it
deals its standard damage type or cold damage.
Pact of the Chain. When you conjure your familiar
or change its form, you can choose the form of an ice
mephit in addition to the usual options granted by the pact
boon. When you use your action to command your mephit
familiar to attack, it can use its breath or cast an innate
spell instead.
Pact of the Tome. Your book is formed from rune-
etched sheets of ice that are cold to the touch to everyone
but you. The book is immune to cold damage.
The following invocations are available to Frozen One
warlocks.
Prerequisite: 3rd level, Frozen One patron
Ice and snow cascade around you. When you use an action,
your melee attacks deal an extra 1d6 cold damage, and
attackers within 5 feet of you who hit you in melee take 1d6
cold damage, for as long as you maintain concentration.
Prerequisite: 5th level, Frozen One patron
You can cast sculpt snow once using a warlock spell slot.
Creatures that see your sculpture for the first time must
make a successful Wisdom saving throw against your
spell save DC or become frightened of the sculpture for
1 round. You must finish a long rest before using this
invocation again.
Your innate magic comes from the power of divine or
magical entities of winter, beings born to the ice and cold.
You might trace your descent down a line of ancestry
from a mighty sorcerer that bargained with the God of
the North Wind for power, or that formed a pact with
powerful creatures of ice and snow. Or perhaps you are
the first of the bloodline, the product of a union between
a parent of your own kind and some wintry being. You
Starting at 14th level, you can designate a creature you see
within 60 feet of you. It must make a Constitution saving
throw against your warlock spell save DC. On a failed save,
the creature feels numbing cold emanating from your
patron. The creature takes 10d10 cold damage and must
make another Constitution saving throw. If the second
saving throw is failed, the creature is also restrained for
1 minute. A creature restrained in this way repeats the
saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the
condition on a success. After using this feature, you must
finish a short or long rest before using it again.
might even be the originator of it—the first one to traffic
with a powerful boreal being in order to master the icy
might of winter magic.
Starting when you choose this origin at 1st level, your
affinity for winter means that your enemies suffer more
than normal from the cold spells you cast. A creature that
takes cold damage from one of your spells takes extra
damage equal to your Charisma modifier.
WINTER'S CHILD
Your affinity with winter allows you to venture forth in
the cold without harm. You never suffer the effects of
extreme cold, even if you are not dressed for the weather.
Additionally, you can move over snow and ice without
taking penalties for difficult terrain.
At 6th level, you gain resistance to cold damage. Also,
when you use sorcery points to apply a Metamagic option
to a spell that deals cold damage or that produces an effect
that involves snow or ice (sleet storm, for example), you can
reduce the cost by 1 sorcery point, to a minimum of 1 point.
WINTER'S FORM
At 14th level, you can give your wintry power physical
form. As a bonus action, you can spend 1 sorcery point
to transform your body for 1 minute. When you use this
feature, you can take one of two forms:
• Your body transforms into a swirling mass of sleet
or snow. Your gear transforms with you or falls to
the ground in the space you occupy, as you choose.
While in this form, you cannot speak, manipulate
objects, attack, or cast spells. You gain immunity to
cold damage, resistance to nonmagical bludgeoning,
piercing, and slashing damage, and vulnerability
to fire damage. In this form, your only method
of movement is a flying speed of 60 feet, and you
can hover. You can pass through small holes and
narrow openings at least 1 inch in width, but you treat
liquids as if they were solid surfaces. You cannot fall,
and you remain hovering even while stunned or
incapacitated. You can enter the space of another
creature and remain there. Any creature whose
space you occupy takes cold damage equal to your
Charisma modifier.
• Your body transforms into translucent, blue-white
ice, and your hair becomes a crown of snow. You gain
immunity to cold damage, resistance to nonmagical
bludgeoning damage, and vulnerability to fire damage,
and your Armor Class is never lower than 15 + your
Dexterity modifier. Any creature within 5 feet of you
that hits you with a melee weapon attack or a touch
attack takes cold damage equal to your Charisma
modifier. While in this form, you gain a slam attack
with your icy fists that deals 1d4 bludgeoning damage
plus cold damage equal to your Charisma modifier.
WINTER'S SOUL
At 18th level, you gain immunity to cold damage and
resistance to fire damage. (You don’t have this resistance
when you use Winter’s Form, but you also no longer gain
vulnerability to fire damage when you use that feature.)
When you cast a spell that deals cold damage, any creature
that gets a failure on its saving throw against the spell
is also encased in ice, becoming grappled until it or a
creature allied with it within 5 feet succeeds on a Strength
check against your spell save DC. If the spell does not
normally allow a saving throw, the creature makes a saving
throw to avoid being grappled. If the spell already causes
the grappled condition, the creature has disadvantage on
the saving throw.
280WIZARD'S ENTOURAGE
The brooding archmage alone in his tower is a staple of
fantasy literature. The more powerful the wizard becomes,
the more distant he or she seems from the common folk,
and the greatest wizards are often the most misunderstood
or feared. Some wizards try to alleviate this loneliness
by passing on their knowledge to those around them,
taking on one or more apprentices. Others create magic
constructs to guard their homes—or simply to keep them
company—and wizards summon familiars for much the
same reason.
This section describes various companions and
accoutrements that a powerful spellcaster, particularly a
wizard, might have. These creatures and features help to
flesh out a wizard’s home and are often encountered in
the wizard’s stead. Finally, they provide opportunities for
adventure, either independent of the wizard or linked to
the spellcaster.
ApprenticesEvery archmage needs someone to clean dishes, tend to
meals, and wash bedpans. Although some wizards use
spells or servants to perform these duties, others give
these jobs to their apprentices, budding wizards they
have taken under their wings to learn the esteemed art of
magic. Many wizards also rely on their apprentices to deal
with the riffraff who wander into their towers looking for
help; for many player characters, the wizard’s apprentice is
their first point of contact.
Wizard's Entourage
281WIZARD'S ENTOURAGE
Below are presented five apprentices that can be inserted
into a new or ongoing campaign. These apprentices are
more than just collections of numbers; each has his or her
own history and motivations that can impact the lives of
the characters who deal with them.
“Magic never judges you based on your appearance. It doesn’t care
if you are fat or thin, if you are beautiful or ugly. Magic accepts
you the way you are.”
Lereilel Cloudwood (NG female human 2nd-level
wizard) is a young woman in her early twenties with
dark reddish-brown hair, pale green eyes, and numerous
freckles. Overweight and lacking confidence, Lereilel
has always been anxious about her appearance and is
frequently tongue-tied, particularly when dealing with
members of the opposite sex. She has a real passion for
magic, however, and was taken in as an apprentice by
Ravin Wyrdstone (LN male human 16th-level wizard
[transmuter]), who has great faith in Lereilel’s abilities.
Background. Lereilel was born into an affluent family
and displayed an affinity for magic when she came of
age—much to the chagrin of her socialite mother, who
constantly expressed her disappointment that Lereilel
had taken after her father’s looks and whims. Although
she was discouraged by her mother’s disapproval and the
mirthful stares of the men her mother brought to woo her,
Lereilel eventually convinced her father to let her study
magic under the tutelage of Ravin Wyrdstone. Since then,
Lereilel has worked hard to prove herself but still thinks
that her appearance holds her back. She has faith that the
transmutation magic she is studying might hold the key
to “correcting” her unsightly looks and finally make her
mother proud of her.
Recently, Lereilel has been seeing Thaliydor Brightcrest,
a handsome half-elf and a local carpenter who seems
to think the world of her despite her homeliness.
Unfortunately for her, Lereilel does not realize she is being
duped and that Thaliydor is actually an assassin (CE male
half-elf 5th-level rogue) who is using her to get closer to
her master.
Personality. Loreilel is highly intelligent and well
versed in arcane lore, but finds it difficult to speak with
people and has been something of a wallflower throughout
her life. As such, she can easily be taken advantage of
by someone who gives her any attention, particularly if
that person is both attractive and charming. If Lereilel
realizes that Thaliydor’s feelings are false, the last shreds
of her confidence might finally break, leading her to do
something potentially self-destructive unless someone
steps in to save her.
Plot Hook. One easy way for the characters to become
involved with Lereilel is to have them hired by her master
as guards. Ravin is concerned that he might be the target
of an assassination attempt by an old enemy and wants the
characters to protect him and his apprentice until he can
track down the villain. Strangely, the archmage is more
concerned about Lereilel than he is about himself and
tells the characters to watch her carefully. Alternatively,
they could be hired by Lereilel’s father to check on his
daughter and see how she is doing. Regardless of how
the characters become involved, their arrival puts a major
chink in Thaliydor’s plans and forces the assassin’s hand,
as the half-elf hires a band of evil brigands to deal with
the characters while he uses Lereilel as bait to make an
attempt on the life of her master.
282WIZARD'S ENTOURAGE
“Ever since my sister was forced to marry that horrible noble, I’ve
been looking for a way to free her. You lot might be just the heroes
I need.”
Terindor Grayveil (CG male human 1st-level wizard) is a
wiry lad of fifteen with unruly orange hair and deep blue
eyes. An earnest and helpful soul, Terindor is also far
smarter than most of the adults around him and has taken
to the study of magic with natural aplomb. His master is
Elgretta Mathelzor (LG female human 14th-level wizard
[evoker]), a famous war wizard who is often away on
military campaigns, leaving Terindor to fend for himself.
Background. Terindor was born to hard-working but
luckless mercantile parents who gave everything they had
to make the lives of their children better, even teaching
them letters and history to help them establish themselves
in the world. The family became crippled by debt, and
rather than seeing her parents cast out onto the streets,
Terindor’s sister, Ileena, agreed to marry a lecherous noble
in order to save the family business. Shortly thereafter,
Terindor sought out the war wizard and begged to become
her apprentice—a move that
shocked his mother and father,
even more so when Elgretta
agreed. Since then, Terindor
has worked hard at his training,
moving forward in leaps and
bounds even though his master
is frequently absent.
Personality.
Terindor is a
determined lad who
consistently pushes
himself to become
a better wizard.
While maintaining this
focus, he frequently pauses
his studies to help out those
in need, whether by fixing
the roof of a spinster’s
cottage or driving out giant
rats from the local brewery.
Well-liked by those in his
community, he is also the
only one not awestruck by his
mistress, who is renowned
for her success in single-
handedly destroying a
horde of goblins and felling
a mighty white dragon with
a barrage of spells.
Terindor’s main reason for wanting to become stronger
is to free Ileena from her forced marriage. Although he
knows that Elgretta sympathizes with him, she has told
him quite bluntly that seeking retribution against the
noble is wrong and not something she can be part of.
Plot Hook. While he is training, Terindor keeps his
ear to the ground in the community for talk of passing
adventurers, particularly those who don’t care about
breaking the rules but are still fundamentally good at
heart. If he hears of the characters’ deeds, he approaches
them at his first opportunity and expresses his desire
to help his sister out of her predicament. Terindor has
nothing to give the characters in payment but promises
to help them enchant their gear when he becomes a more
powerful wizard. If the characters seem about to refuse
his request, he offers them the services of Elgretta—a
promise that he knows might cause him a lot of trouble in
the future.
“Master Taramind took me on as his apprentice even though there
were more suitable candidates. I’ll be forever grateful to him.”
Erolimar (LG male elf 1st-level wizard) is a young elf with
sweeping silvery locks and amethyst eyes. Stout of limb,
graceful and handsome, Erolimar seems almost like the
perfect elf—yet despite these qualities, he has been cursed
with only middling intelligence and wisdom, making
him a poor choice as a wizard’s apprentice. Nevertheless,
he has been taken on by Taramind the Scorched (NE elf
male 15th-level wizard [conjurer]), a mysterious elf with
hideously burned features who is known for his dealings
with elementals and fiends.
Background. Erolimar comes from a long line of
accomplished spellcasters. Indeed, it was expected that
young Erolimar would enroll at an esteemed college
of magic when he came of age so he could follow in his
forebears’ footsteps. This would have been the case, had
he passed the entrance exam. Soon, it became clear that
Erolimar was not the paragon of wizardry his father and
mother thought he would be. Dejected, he turned his back
on magic to pursue the meaningful but far less prestigious
role of hunter for his village.
Just when it seemed that magic had left Erolimar
behind, he was saved by Taramind, who approached
the young elf to be his apprentice. At first fearful of the
wizard’s reputation, Erolimar finally accepted the offer
and has taken to his new position with gusto, unaware
that his master has taken him on to prepare Erolimar’s
soul for sacrifice to a fiend, whose life force he will then
transfer into the young elf ’s body.
283WIZARD'S ENTOURAGE
Personality. Erolimar
is a kind-hearted,
generous, and naive
individual who does
not see a bad bone
in anyone around
him. Even Taramind,
with his menacing
demeanor and harsh
teaching methods, does
not set off Erolimar’s
alarm bells; he prefers
to focus on his master’s
strengths, rather than
than worry about his flaws.
Erolimar is envied by many
in his village for his good
looks and natural agility,
but they are also aware of his
failings, and there are few who can hold a bad thought in
their hearts for the elf for too long.
Plot Hook. The characters are hired by the local elf
population to investigate a spate of bizarre animal attacks
in the vicinity of Taramind’s mansion. The attacks have
been violent and erratic, the animals in question extremely
vicious and difficult to kill. During their investigation,
the characters run into Erolimar, and the elf proves to be
helpful on more than one occasion. Eventually (perhaps
with Erolimar’s help), they realize that the animals have
become possessed by lesser fiends and that some sort of
conjuration magic is responsible. It is at this point when
Taramind begins to prepare the young elf for sacrifice, and
it is up to the characters to save him. How this plays out is
up to the GM, but Taramind is no pushover—his mansion
is home to magic traps, bound fiends, and terrible golems.
“I was a warrior before I became a wizard, a sword for hire who
traveled the world looking for adventure. I made a name for
myself as well. Perhaps you’ve heard of me? Arn’s the name—Arn
of Rowan.”
Arn of Rowan (CN male human 12th-level
fighter/2nd-level wizard) is a strapping man in his
mid-thirties with long brown hair, a thick beard, and
piercing black eyes. Tall and full of vigor, Arn seems like
an odd choice for a wizard’s apprentice, and his master,
Jainara Meadowwands (LN female human 9th-level
wizard [illusionist]), seems more like a harried wife than
a teacher. Indeed, most people find
their pairing to be odd, especially
given that Arn is much more
famous than his master.
284WIZARD'S ENTOURAGE
Background. Arn began his career as a soldier in the
army of a self-righteous duke who waged war against his
neighbors under the pretense of dispensing justice. It was
during this bloody time that Arn solidified his reputation as
a vicious fighter with axe and shield, and once the duke had
his fill of warfare, Arn forged his own career as a mercenary
for hire, basing himself in the small town of Rowan, which
he soon put on the map with his legendary exploits.
It was after one particularly harrowing mission that Arn
drank too much ale at the local tavern and lost a bet to one
of his companions, a bard who claimed that Arn could
never master any trade but that of the blade. Haughtily,
Arn took up the challenge and availed himself of the
talents of Jainara Meadowwands, a mousy-haired woman
and capable illusionist, agreeing to pay off her debts in
exchange for becoming her pupil. Jainara accepted the
deal, believing that Arn would quickly grow bored and
leave—but much to her amazement, he not only stayed but
quickly excelled as her student.
Personality. Arn is a boisterous and carefree individual
who has many scars and tales from his past. Naturally
charismatic and with an unusually keen intellect, he would
probably have been a lord by now if it were not for his
chaotic nature. The fact that he is good at magecraft does
not surprise Arn, since he is good at whatever he puts
his mind to. What does surprise him, however, is that he
actually enjoys the work. He has also grown quite fond of
Jainara, and finds her presence strangely calming.
Plot Hook. The characters are passing through the
area when Rowan is attacked by a flight of wyvern-riding
hobgoblins. Arn and Jainara are also present, and through
their combined efforts they and the characters manage to
turn back the attack. Jainara is injured during the fight,
and it is at this stage that Arn decides to turn his back on
the blade and try being a wizard full-time. Of course, being
Arn of Rowan, he cannot let the culprits get away with
hurting his master, so he offers the PCs his magic battleaxe
if they track the hobgoblins back to their base and finish
them off.
“Master Dramothir will be with you shortly. Just be sure to mind
your manners and don’t put any dirt on the furniture.”
Xelasora (LN female dragonborn 1st-level sorcerer/1st-
level wizard) is a graceful dragonborn in her late teens
with mottled blue and green scales, four short horns that
sweep back from her brow, and large amber eyes. She also
has a large, reddish birthmark on her left shoulder that
she normally keeps hidden under her robes. Xelasora is
serious and humble and possesses a razor-sharp mind.
Her master is Dramothir Galefnir (LG male dwarf 12th-
level wizard [abjurer]), who in addition to being a learned
mage is also a renowned artisan and jeweler.
Background. The youngest of seven siblings, Xelasora
lived a happy childhood, until the disastrous day when a
red dragon attacked her community and killed the rest
of her family. Mentally and emotionally scarred by the
experience, Xelasora withdrew into herself after she was
placed in an orphanage. She was ostracized by the other
children in the orphanage, who were mostly human and
considered her little more than a monster. Eventually, her
pent-up emotions boiled over and she unleashed some
of her latent magic, setting fire to the clothing of one of
her tormentors. This act led to her being expelled from
the orphanage and forced to live on the streets, where
she barely managed to stay alive by using her powers.
Finally, when all hope seemed lost, Xelasora was taken
285WIZARD'S ENTOURAGE
in by the mage Dramothir, a dwarf who was intrigued by
her intelligence and wit, and who was a natural sucker
for a damsel in distress. Since then, Xelasora has done
her best to be a dutiful apprentice and astutely handles
Dramothir’s busy schedule.
Personality. Xelasora is the best student that any
wizard could hope for. She pursues both her magical
studies and her mundane duties with the same rigorous
attention to detail and is faultless in her execution. Her
poised exterior, however, conceals a tormented soul. She
constantly doubts herself and is worried that she could
lose control of her sorcerous abilities if she becomes
flustered or upset. The deaths of her family and the
trouble she faced at the orphanage also still weigh on her
heavily, and lately she has been plagued with dreams of
fire and shadowy flying shapes, causing her to suddenly
awaken in terror.
Plot Hook. Xelasora’s magic comes from a bit of theft:
in her younger days, she stole a set of scrolls from an
ancient red dragon. The dragon still exists in the form
of a terrible undead monstrosity, and it shares a strange
link with the young dragonborn that allows the two
of them to share dreams and images of their lives. By
the time the characters enter the picture, the dragon is
close to discovering Xelasora’s
location—and when it
does so, it plans to slay
her and recover its
scrolls. Before this
event comes to pass,
the characters have
a chance to stop it,
either by destroying
the dragon or somehow
trapping it. Of course,
defeating an undead
dragon is no easy feat;
depending on the
characters’ level, the GM might
want to lead them up to the event
with battles against the dragon’s
servants in the form of ghouls, trolls,
vampires, and lesser evil dragons.
Magic ConstructsGolems and similar constructs are common features in a
wizard’s home. The most powerful mages have access to
even more dangerous and complex automatons. Although
golems are the most common of these constructs, they
seldom have any individuality or personality, making them
little more than defensive window-dressing.
Described below are several unique magic constructs,
each with its own history and personality. Some of them
are presented along with ready-made adventure scenarios.
BZELDRUIN’S HUNDRED
Spread out across the ground before you is an impressive collection
of close to a hundred wooden miniatures. Each figure resembles an
adult male, an adult female, or a child. Most seem to be human,
but you can see elves, dwarves, halflings, and even a few centaurs
and other creatures scattered among them. As soon as you notice
them, the figures begin to mimic your every movement.
Bzeldruin’s Hundred is a group of one hundred wooden
miniature figures created by the gnomish transmuter
Bzeldruin Tiwaskar to represent his friends and family.
Bzeldruin created them in celebration of his life’s many
286WIZARD'S ENTOURAGE
achievements, but their creation was flawed and they
became inhabited by an evil spirit that sought to slay the
very people they were modeled after. Unable to bring
himself to destroy them, Bzeldruin tried to seal them away
in the depths of his tower—and although he succeeded,
the effort cost him his life. Now his tower lies deserted,
enticing explorers with the promise of powerful magic if
they can overcome the horrors within.
BZELDRUIN’S HUNDRED
Medium swarm of tiny constructs, neutral evil
Armor Class 17 (natural armor)
Hit Points 88 (16d4 + 48)
Speed 10 ft.
1 (–5) 20 (+5) 16 (+3) 5 (–3) 10 (+0) 1 (–5)
Damage Immunities cold, poison, psychic; bludgeoning,
piercing, and slashing damage from nonmagical attacks
Damage Resistances fire, lightning, necrotic, radiant
Condition Immunities charmed, exhaustion, grappled,
paralyzed, petrified, poisoned, stunned, restrained
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 10
Languages understands all languages but can’t speak
Challenge 7 (2,900 XP)
Immutable Form. Bzeldruin’s Hundred is immune to any
spell or effect that would alter its form.
Magic Resistance. Bzeldruin’s Hundred has advantage on
saving throws against spells and other magical effects.
Magic Weapons. Weapon attacks made by Bzeldrin’s
Hundred are magical.
Perfect Mimicry. The scores of individual figures that make
up the swarm can perfectly mimic the actions of a single
humanoid creature within 30 feet as an action. The swarm
can mimic only one creature at a time, and the act of doing
so grants the construct advantage on attack rolls and saving
throws it makes involving the mimicked creature until the
start of the construct’s next turn.
Swarm. The swarm can occupy another creature’s space and
vice versa, and the swarm can move through any opening
large enough for a Tiny figurine. The swarm can’t regain hit
points or gain temporary hit points.
Rejuvenation. If Bzeldruin’s Hundred is reduced to 0 hit
points, it collapses and disintegrates into dust, then re-forms
24 hours later in the same location with its full hit points.
There is no way to stop this rejuvenation from happening,
short of a carefully worded wish spell or divine intervention.
Slam. Melee Weapon Attack: +8 to hit, reach 0 ft., one target
in the swarm’s space. Hit: 33 (8d6 + 5) bludgeoning damage.
If the swarm is reduced to half its hit points or fewer, the
bludgeoning damage from its slam attack is 19 (4d6 + 5).
Hindering Strike. Any Medium or smaller creature damaged
by the swarm must make a DC 15 Strength saving throw. On
a failed save, several of the figures cling to its body, reducing
its speed by 10 feet and giving it disadvantage on Dexterity
saving throws and Dexterity checks. A creature can repeat
the save at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on
itself on a success.
LEOTHAR’S BUST
Floating before you is an exquisitely-crafted bust of a middle-aged
man with a balding pate and a well-cropped beard. The bust
appears to be constructed out of white marble. Its features are
animated, and the entity is watching you with an expectant
expression. Close behind the bust are two maids’ uniforms,
suspended in the air as though being worn by unseen creatures.
The archmage Leothar Wickerfrost is a noted explorer and
adventurer, and as such is often away from home for long
periods of time. During some of these absences, thieves
raided his tower, and after he surprised them on his return,
he ended up spending a lot of time cleaning up their
corpses. To rid himself of this chore, the wizard decided to
create the perfect servant, a bust in his own magnificent
image endowed with magical power.
Leothar’s bust shares many traits with its creator. It has
the same haughty and egomaniacal attitude and looks
down on those who cannot wield magic. The construct is
scrupulous in its duties and is in command of the tower’s
many servants, including a pair of modified unseen
servants wearing maid outfits. Leothar’s bust welcomes
visitors with the same abrasive manner its creator displays,
whether they are legitimate guests or intruders, but will
not take hostile action against creatures until it can discern
the details of their intentions.
LEOTHAR’S BUST
Tiny construct, lawful neutral
Armor Class 16 (natural armor)
Hit Points 42 (12d4 + 12)
Speed 5 ft., fly 40 ft. (hover)
8 (–1) 16 (+3) 12 (+1) 18 (+4) 10 (+0) 8 (–1)
Saving Throws Dex +5, Int +6
Skills Arcana +6, History +6, Investigation +6
Damage Immunities poison, psychic
Damage Resistances cold, fire, lightning; bludgeoning,
piercing, and slashing damage from nonmagical attacks
Condition Immunities charmed, exhaustion, frightened,
paralyzed, petrified, poisoned, stunned
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 10
Languages Common, Draconic, Elvish
Challenge 3 (700 XP)
Magic Resistance. The bust has advantage on saving throws
against spells and other magical effects.
287WIZARD'S ENTOURAGE
Innate Spellcasting. The bust’s spellcasting ability is
Intelligence (spell save DC 14). It can innately cast the
following spells, requiring no
material components:
At will: light, mending, prestidigitation
5/day each: detect magic, floating disk
3/day each: knock, suggestion
1/day each: fear, sending
Multiattack. The bust makes two ray attacks or a single slam
attack.
Arcane Ray. Ranged Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, range 120 ft.,
one target. Hit: 14 (4d4 + 4) force damage.
Paralysis Ray. Ranged Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, range 60
ft., one target. Hit: The target must succeed on a DC 15
Constitution saving throw or be paralyzed for 1 minute. A
creature can repeat this save at the end of each of its turns,
ending the effect on itself on a success.
Slam. Melee Weapon Attack: +1 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target.
Hit: 4 (1d4 + 2) bludgeoning damage.
NISRUEL’S COACHFLY
This long, narrow contraption resembles a clockwork dragonfly
that’s larger than a horse. It is fashioned from silver and lapis
lazuli, with panes of delicate-looking multicolored
stained glass for wings. The back of the
construct contains a hollow that looks like
it could hold one or more occupants.
Decades ago, the noble half-elf
wizard Nisruel created a
beautiful clockwork construct fashioned after
the enormous dragonflies of her marshy
homeland. Though she was usually content to
teleport when she wanted to go somewhere,
sometimes Nisruel wanted to travel in style—so she
crafted this construct to impress her friends and others
in the elven court. Word of her wondrous carriage spread
throughout the land shortly after she revealed it, and
Nisruel enjoyed receiving recognition for her work.
Sadly, her fame also drew the ire of her rival, the
sorceress Ymelda, who lured Nisruel and her construct
into the web of a gargantuan spider before ambushing the
wizard with foul magic. Both Nisruel and Ymelda died
in this struggle, but Nisruel’s construct survived intact,
and it still lies caught up in the webs of the great arachnid,
awaiting rescue.
NISRUEL’S COACHFLY
Large construct, unaligned
Armor Class 15 (natural armor)
Hit Points 60 (8d10 + 16)
Speed 20 ft., fly 80 ft.
12 (+1) 18 (+4) 14 (+2) 3 (–4) 10 (+0) 1 (–5)
Skills Perception +4
Damage Immunities poison, psychic, radiant
Condition Immunities charmed, exhaustion, frightened,
paralyzed, petrified, poisoned, stunned
Senses darkvision 90 ft., passive Perception 14
Languages understands Common and Elvish but can’t speak
Challenge 2 (450 XP)
Compartment. One Medium creature, two Small creatures,
or four Tiny creatures can comfortably fit inside the
compartment at the rear of the coachfly. A creature inside
the compartment is protected from the effects of wind, rain,
and snow, and can share any spell it casts on itself with the
coachfly if the spell also affects constructs. A creature can
enter or leave the compartment as an action but cannot
288WIZARD'S ENTOURAGE
fall out even if the coachfly is upside
down and has advantage on
grapple checks to avoid being
dragged out. Creatures in the
compartment also have total
cover against all attacks, though
if the coachfly fails a saving
throw against an area attack
that deals damage, those in the
compartment take half as much
damage. If the coachfly is destroyed,
occupants are ejected into an
unoccupied space within 5 feet of it.
An occupant of the compartment
can direct the coachfly to move and
to make attacks against a target within
range. Only one occupant can direct
the coachfly in each round, even if it
has multiple occupants. If the coachfly is
not being controlled, it moves and
attacks only to defend itself.
Immutable Form. The coachfly is
immune to any spell or effect that
would alter its form.
Magic Resistance. The coachfly has advantage on saving
throws against spells and other magical effects.
Multiattack. The coachfly makes two Light Ray attacks.
Light Ray. Ranged Spell Attack: +6 to hit, range 120 ft., one
target. Hit: 13 (2d8 + 4) radiant damage. A creature struck
by the ray must also make a successful DC 14 Constitution
saving throw or be blinded until the end of its next turn.
SIVVAR’S WRITING DESK
This large ebony writing table has glossy brass fittings and a
broad, flat top, dangling from which is a thin brass chain. Carved
at the end of the desk’s wooden legs are the claws of some sort of
beast. As you approach, these claws animate and paw menacingly
at the ground.
Over a century ago, the wizard Sivvar was counted among
the most learned historians of his age. So respected was
he that people came from miles around to ask him for
help in tracking down lost relics, forgotten tombs, and
ancient ruins. The knowledge he amassed came with a
price, though, and Sivvar eventually gathered many secrets
that were too dangerous to be shared openly. To protect
himself and his works, Sivvar fashioned a construct out
of his writing desk. Not only would this piece of simple
furniture store the knowledge he had gathered, it would
protect itself from harm if someone tried to take the
contents by force.
Recently, after years of foiling or dodging enemy
attacks, Sivvar suddenly vanished, leaving his desk and
other worldly possessions in the care of his sister’s
granddaughter, Emelia Nightmace. Emelia knows that
her great-uncle’s mansion and possessions are potentially
dangerous and seeks the help of adventurers to enter the
place and catalogue its contents. What she doesn’t know is
that Sivvar is still alive somewhere inside the mansion, and
his desk holds the key to contacting him.
SIVVAR’S WRITING DESK
Medium construct, unaligned
Armor Class 14 (natural armor)
Hit Points 47 (5d8 + 25)
Speed 40 ft.
18 (+4) 12 (+1) 20 (+5) 2 (–4) 8 (–1) 1 (–5)
Saving Throws Str +7
Damage Immunities poison, psychic
Damage Resistances cold, necrotic; bludgeoning, piercing,
and slashing damage from nonmagical attacks
Condition Immunities blinded, charmed, deafened,
exhaustion, frightened, paralyzed, petrified, poisoned,
stunned
Senses tremorsense 60 ft. (blind beyond this radius), passive
Perception 9
Languages understands Common but can’t speak
Challenge 1 (200 XP)
Antimagic Susceptibility. The desk is incapacitated while in
the area of an antimagic field. If targeted by dispel magic, the
289WIZARD'S ENTOURAGE
desk must succeed on a Constitution saving throw against
the caster’s spell save DC or become inanimate for 1 minute.
Immutable Form. The desk is immune to any spell or effect
that would alter its form.
False Appearance. While the desk remains motionless, it is
indistinguishable from a normal writing desk.
Locked Drawers. The drawers of the desk are locked by a
modified version of the arcane lock spell. The desk opens its
drawers when someone speaks the appropriate command
word. If someone tries to open the drawers without the
correct password, the desk animates and attacks.
Oddities For Every Occasion
Multiattack. The desk makes two claw attacks.
Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +7 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target.
Hit: 14 (3d6 + 4) slashing damage.
Rake. If the desk hits the same target with both claw attacks,
it rakes the victim for an extra 10 (3d6) slashing damage.
Desperate Escape (1/day). The desk can use dimension door
as a bonus action. It uses this ability only when reduced to
10 hit points or fewer.
From wands that shoot out darts of force and potions that
allow you to breathe underwater to magic airships and
iron barrels that turn into crabs, wizards are behind the
creation of most of the magic items found in a standard
fantasy setting. Yet not every magic item is as generally
useful or powerful as those mentioned above. Some of the
magic items found in a wizard’s laboratory or workshop
fill a niche role, are the results of failed experiments,
function as normal magic items but have a different
appearance, or are just plain bizarre.
While characters explore a wizard’s tower or
stronghold, an adventurer might come across a variety
of strange magic items, some of which are more helpful
than others. To determine what a character finds while
searching, roll on the table below or choose one or more
items at your discretion.
D
1 An animated weapon rack with long, thin wooden arms that hands out any item stored in it on command. The
weapon rack doesn’t defend itself if attacked (AC 15, hp 20, damage threshold 3, vulnerability to fire damage).
2 A battered copper lantern that sings a bawdy folk tale in Goblin whenever oil is placed inside it and it is lit. The
singing can be heard clearly from up to 300 feet away.
3 A chamber pot that teleports its contents into an extradimensional space on command. There is a 25 percent
chance that the chamber pot malfunctions and teleports its contents onto the head of a nearby creature.
4 A bright purple skullcap with fancy golden embroidery that turns the wearer’s head invisible and renders the
wearer mute. The wearer can see and hear normally, and can remove the skullcap without impediment.
5 A painting of a beautiful half-elf girl staring off into a pond. The girl animates and curtsies whenever a living
creature comes within 10 feet of her. If the painting is attacked, the girl cowers in terror but does not make a
sound. The painting is as hard as steel (AC 19, hp 20, damage threshold 8, resistance to all damage).
6 A wind chime made of bones that emits a clear ringing sound whenever any spell is cast within 30 feet of it. The
chime does not react to normal winds and does not activate while being carried, worn, or held.
7 A tiny animated bronze rat that causes irrational fear in any feline that sees it. A feline creature of challenge
rating 1 or lower that comes within 30 feet of the rat must make a successful DC 10 Wisdom saving throw or be
frightened for 1 minute. The creature can repeat the save at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself
on a success. The rat has the statistics of a normal rat, but it is immune to poison and psychic damage and to being
charmed, frightened, exhausted, paralyzed, poisoned, petrified, or stunned.
8 A white silk handkerchief that functions as a cloak of protection, but only when worn by a Tiny creature.
There is a 33 percent chance that the handkerchief is currently being worn by a homunculus.
9 A set of false black eyelashes in a metal case. The lashes can be put on or removed as an action. Whenever a creature
the wearer would be physically attracted to comes within 10 feet, the wearer is forced to wink repeatedly in the
direction of the other creature. The wearer can resist this compulsion with a successful DC 11 Wisdom saving throw.
290WIZARD'S ENTOURAGE
10 Twelve identical decorative silver nails that ignore the damage threshold of any nonmagical object they are nailed
into and can hold up to 5,000 pounds of weight. The nails cannot be used as weapons, and they lose their magic if
they are extracted after being used.
11 A clear crystal prism containing a mummified elven ear. When the prism is placed against a surface where a
compartment lies beyond, such as a closed door, a random illusory sound is generated that seems to be coming
from the other side.
12 A leather-bound booklet that contains illustrations of various creatures and objects. The booklet functions as a
robe of useful items, except that it has only the twelve patches found on each robe. When the last page is torn out, the
booklet becomes useless.
13 A ceramic and gold bathtub shaped like a dragon and painted bright crimson. The bathtub fills with hot, scented
water that pours from the dragon’s maw on command and fills the tub. The bathtub regains the use of this ability
each day at dawn.
14 A glass globe filled with pale yellow smoke that swirls menacingly when touched. When shattered, the globe
replicates the effects of a wand of wonder and produces a smell like rotten eggs. The sphere magically re-forms in
1d6 days unless dispel magic is cast on the fragments.
15 A tiny lump of cream-colored wax in a small wooden box. It shapes itself into a wax duplicate of any living creature
that touches it for more than 1 round. The creature that was mimicked can cause its duplicate to move up to 10 feet
as an action and to perform simple actions (but not attack). The wax figurine has a Strength score of 2 for lifting
and carrying purposes. After 1 hour, the wax duplicate becomes inert and resumes its normal form. It cannot be
reactivated until the following dawn.
16 A potted plant of unknown origin in a dark blue vase. The plant’s berries are actually gems worth 10 gp each. A
total of 2d6 gems can be collected from the plant, but if every gem is picked the plant transforms into either a great
mandrake (Creature Codex, p. 260) or an awakened tree and attacks the picker.
17 A featureless wooden mannequin that cloaks itself in the illusion of whatever clothing the viewer desires. The range
of clothing the mannequin can generate is limited only by the viewer’s imagination. The mannequin is treated as a
normal wooden object for combat purposes (AC 15, hp 30, damage threshold 4, vulnerability to fire damage).
18 A featureless wooden mannequin holding a wooden sword and shield that stands silently in the center of a
20-foot-radius red circle. The mannequin animates when a creature brandishing a weapon enters the circle. The
mannequin uses the statistics of either a wood golem (Creature Codex, p. 201) or animated armor. If it reduces
a creature to 0 hit points, the creature is knocked unconscious rather than being killed. The mannequin stops
attacking if the creature threatening it or attacking it leaves the circle.
19 A small gilded birdcage covered in exotic filigree and mounted on a greenstone plinth. The cage grants the
semblance of life to any dead creature of Tiny size placed inside it. The creature appears to be alive for all intents
and purposes, but only while it is inside the cage. As soon as the creature leaves the cage, it returns to its dead state
in the same condition it entered. The cage ceases to function if removed from its plinth. The cage currently holds a
songbird (01–25), a raven (26–50), or a pixie (56–75), or is empty (76–00).
20 A Large stone font inscribed with arcane symbols. The font produces one dose of a random potion each day at
dawn. Someone who drinks from the font gains the effect of the potion. If the liquid is removed from the font
and placed inside another container, it loses its magical properties. The font weighs more than 200 pounds, so
transporting it is difficult.
291WIZARD'S ENTOURAGE
Familiar Territory
Although the list of available familiars in the standard
rules is sufficient for most campaigns, some players and
GMs might enjoy using an unusual creature that has
features not found in other familiars.
To determine what familiar an NPC spellcaster might
have, the GM can roll on one of the tables in this section or
select a creature. Players can also use these tables to choose
familiars for their characters, with the GM’s approval. (Of
course, any creature that can be a familiar must also exist
in the world on its own.)
The familiars presented here are of two basic kinds:
standard familiars, which function the same as other
beasts that serve the caster of the find familiar spell, and
variant familiars, each of which is an intelligent creature
that offers a special benefit to its master.
As stated in the find familiar spell, each of these creatures
gains the celestial, fey, or fiend type (spellcaster’s choice)
when it becomes a familiar. Also, as noted in the spell, a
familiar can’t attack (though it can deliver a touch spell on
behalf of its master). The stat blocks in this section include
information on attacks, because it might come into play if
any of these creatures are encountered as monsters in their
own right, or perhaps as allies of the player characters.
With the GM’s consent, any of the beasts described in this
section can be chosen by a character who casts the find
familiar spell. These creatures might also be encountered
as the familiars of NPC spellcasters.
D
1 Archaeopteryx
2 Carrion crow
3 Catfish shark
4 Goldbug
5 Hedgehog
6 Mongoose
7 Parrot
8 Platypus
9 Shocker lizard
10 Tortoise
11 Tsuchinoko
12 Wharfling
A prehistoric bird native to warm climates except for
mountains and deserts, the archaeopteryx makes a
faithful familiar.
Tiny beast, unaligned
Armor Class 12 (natural armor)
Hit Points 7 (3d4)
Speed 5 ft., fly 50 ft.
6 (–2) 13 (+1) 10 (+0) 2 (–4) 14 (+2) 6 (–2)
Senses passive Perception 12
Languages —
Challenge 1/4 (50 XP)
Flyby. The archaeopteryx doesn’t provoke opportunity
attacks when it flies out of an enemy’s reach.
Multiattack. The archaeopteryx makes two attacks: one with
its beak and one with its talons.
Beak. Melee Weapon Attack: +3 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target.
Hit: 3 (1d4 + 1) piercing damage.
Talons. Melee Weapon Attack: +3 to hit, reach 5 ft., one
target. Hit: 3 (1d4 + 1) slashing damage.
Feasting on the hearts of fallen evil warriors on battlefields
has corrupted these crows. They resemble normal crows,
but they are easily distinguished by their rust-colored,
barbed beaks and a patch of feathers on their breasts of the
same color. Sometimes, carrion crows use their mimicry
to lure animals and people into danger, in hopes of having
more dead meat on which to feast.
Evil spellcasters find carrion crows to be capable
familiars. The creatures are happy to serve a master if they
are provided with a steady supply of dead flesh and blood.
Tiny beast, unaligned
Armor Class 13
Hit Points 21 (6d4+6)
Speed 10 ft., fly 50 ft.
5 (–3) 16 (+3) 13 (+1) 2 (–4) 13 (+1) 10 (+0)
Skills Perception +3, Stealth +5
Damage Resistances poison
Condition Immunities poisoned
Senses passive Perception 13
292WIZARD'S ENTOURAGE
Languages understands Common but can't speak
Challenge 1/2 (100 XP)
Mimicry. The carrion crow can mimic complex sounds it has
heard, such as a specific person speaking, a bugle call, or
various animal calls. A creature that hears the sounds can tell
they are imitations with a successful DC 13 Wisdom (Insight)
check.
Beak. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target.
Hit: 1 piercing damage and the target must succeed on a DC
13 Constitution saving throw or lose 1 hit point each round
from blood loss until it receives magical healing or until the
target or an ally succeeds on a DC 10 Wisdom check to stop
the bleeding.
Shriek. As an action, the carrion crow emits a raucous caw.
Any creature other than a carrion crow within 10 feet of the
carrion crow must succeed on a DC 13 Wisdom saving throw
or be frightened until the start of the creature's next turn. On
a successful saving throw, a creature is immune to the shriek
of any carrion crow for 1 hour.
The catfish shark lives in deep water. Most species are
less than 1 foot long and range from pale orange to silvery
white in color. Some are also bioluminescent. The catfish
shark is an ideal familiar for a spellcaster who operates
underwater.
Tiny beast, unaligned
Armor Class 11
Hit Points 2 (1d4)
Speed 0 ft., swim 40 ft.
3 (–4) 12 (+1) 10 (+0) 1 (–5) 8 (–1) 2 (–4)
Skills Stealth +3
Senses darkvision 90 ft., passive Perception 9
Languages —
Challenge 0 (10 XP)
Bioluminescent. The catfish shark can cause its body to glow
with orange light, providing dim light in a 5-foot radius.
Water Breathing. The catfish shark can breathe only
underwater.
Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +0 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target.
Hit: 1 piercing damage.
The goldbug is a strange sort of insect, a creature whose
round, flat body resembles a gold coin. This “disguise”
helps goldbugs get close to their prized food source: gold.
When placed in a pouch or chest along with the gold coins
it resembles, a goldbug will happily devour the coins at the
rate of one per day.
Goldbugs live underground near veins of gold and are
common in areas where gold is used as coinage and in art
objects.
Tiny beast, unaligned
Armor Class 15 (natural armor)
Hit Points 18 (4d4 + 8)
Speed 10 ft., climb 10 ft.
3 (–4) 14 (+2) 15 (+2) 1 (–5) 10 (+0) 6 (–2)
Senses blindsight 20 ft., passive Perception 13
Languages understands Common but can't speak
Challenge 0 (10 XP)
False Appearance. While the goldbug remains motionless, it
is indistinguishable from a gold coin.
Scent Gold. The goldbug can pinpoint, by scent, the location
of gold within 60 feet of it.
Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target.
Hit: 1 piercing and 1 poison damage, and the target must
succeed on a DC 11 Constitution saving throw or be
poisoned for 1 hour.
The hedgehog is a small terrestrial mammal that eats
insects and worms. Its body is covered in hollow spines
that it can extend as a defense mechanism. Hedgehogs are
often used as familiars by gnomes and halflings.
Tiny beast, unaligned
Armor Class 11 (natural armor)
Hit Points 1 (1d4 – 1)
Speed 20 ft., burrow 5 ft.
3 (–4) 10 (+0) 8 (–1) 2 (–4) 12 (+1) 5 (–3)
Skills Stealth +2
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 11
Languages —
Challenge 0 (10 XP)
293WIZARD'S ENTOURAGE
Keen Hearing and Smell. The hedgehog has advantage on
Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on hearing or smell.
Spiked Roll. As a reaction, a hedgehog can roll into a spiny
ball to protect its body from harm. The hedgehog uses this
reaction whenever a creature makes an attack roll against it
but before the roll takes place. A creature that attacks the
hedgehog must succeed on a DC 10 Dexterity check or take
1 piercing damage. A creature that uses a reach weapon or
a ranged weapon against the hedgehog is unaffected by
this ability.
The mongoose is a sleek mammal with tiny, sharp teeth
that lives in forests and deserts and eats insects, eggs, and
small lizards. The mongoose is a fierce familiar and has
even been known to kill snakes.
Tiny beast, unaligned
Armor Class 13
Hit Points 2 (1d4)
Speed 30 ft., burrow 5 ft.
4 (–3) 14 (+2) 10 (+0) 2 (–4) 10 (+0) 6 (–2)
Skills Perception +2, Stealth +4
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 10
Languages —
Challenge 0 (10 XP)
Keen Hearing and Smell. The mongoose has advantage on
Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on hearing or smell.
Venom Resistance. The mongoose has advantage on saving
throws against the poison of snakes and snakelike monsters.
Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +1 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target.
Hit: 1 piercing damage.
This bird is noted for its colorful plumage and boisterous
disposition. Parrots are favored as familiars by spellcasters
who like bright and flashy magic.
Tiny beast, unaligned
Armor Class 12
Hit Points 1 (1d4 − 1)
Speed 10 ft., fly 50 ft.
2 (–4) 14 (+2) 8 (–1) 2 (–4) 12 (+1) 6 (–2)
Skills Perception +3
Senses passive Perception 13
Languages —
Challenge 0 (10 XP)
Mimicry. The parrot can mimic simple sounds it has heard,
such as a person whispering, a baby crying, or an animal
chittering. A creature that hears the sounds can tell they are
imitations with a successful DC 10 Wisdom (Insight) check.
Beak. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target.
Hit: 1 piercing damage.
The platypus is a water-dwelling mammal that feeds on
worms and other creatures living in the mud of streams
and rivers. Because of its odd appearance, the platypus is
often taken as a familiar by transmuters.
Tiny beast, unaligned
Armor Class 11
Hit Points 1 (1d4 – 1)
Speed 10 ft., swim 40 ft.
3 (–4) 12 (+1) 8 (–1) 2 (–4) 12 (+1) 5 (–3)
Senses blindsight 90 ft., passive Perception 11
Languages —
Challenge 1/8 (25 XP)
Spur. Melee Weapon Attack: +0 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target.
Hit: 1 piercing damage. A creature struck by the spur
must succeed on a DC 11 Constitution saving throw or be
poisoned for 1 minute. The creature can repeat the saving
throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on a
success.
A social beast that dwells in swamps and forests, the
shocker lizard can be a suitable familiar for a wizard
who specializes in lightning or storm magic. Taking a
shocker lizard as a familiar requires an additional material
component of 50 gp worth of fulgurite when the find
familiar spell is cast.
Small beast, unaligned
Armor Class 14 (natural armor)
Hit Points 16 (3d8 + 3)
Speed 40 ft., climb 20 ft., swim 20 ft.
8 (–1) 15 (+2) 13 (+1) 2 (–4) 8 (–1) 3 (–4)
294WIZARD'S ENTOURAGE
Senses darkvision 30 ft., passive Perception 13
Languages —
Challenge 1/2 (100 XP)
Electricity Sense. The shocker lizard automatically detects
any electrical discharge within 100 feet.
Shock. A shocker lizard’s body generates a potent charge
of electricity. A creature that touches the lizard or makes
a successful melee attack against it must make a DC 10
Dexterity saving throw, taking 3 (1d4) lightning damage on
a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. If
other shocker lizards are within 20 feet, the fields augment
each other to a maximum of 24 (8d4) lightning damage.
Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target.
Hit: 4 (1d4 + 2) piercing damage and the target must make
a DC 10 Dexterity saving throw, taking 2 (1d4) lightning
damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a
successful one.
The tortoise is a reptile with a thick shell on its back that
grants it superior armor at the expense of speed. The
tortoise is a popular familiar among abjurers, dragonborn,
and lizardfolk wizards, despite its ponderous movement.
Tiny beast, unaligned
Armor Class 15 (natural armor)
Hit Points 1 (1d4 – 1)
Speed 5 ft.
3 (–4) 7 (–2) 8 (–1) 2 (–4) 10 (+0) 4 (–3)
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 10
Languages —
Challenge 0 (10 XP)
Keen Smell. The tortoise has advantage on Wisdom
(Perception) checks that rely on smell.
A snakelike creature with a fondness for alcohol that lurks
in forests, the tsuchinoko is more capable than a typical
standard familiar, and as such at least 50 gp worth of wine
or spirits must be expended as part of the casting of the
find familiar spell.
Tiny beast, unaligned
Armor Class 14
Hit Points 14 (4d4 + 4)
Speed 30 ft.
5 (–3) 18 (+4) 12 (+1) 2 (–4) 12 (+1) 5 (–3)
Skills Perception +3, Stealth +6
Damage Immunities poison
Condition Immunities poisoned
Senses blindsight 10 ft., passive Perception 13
Languages —
Challenge 1/2 (100 XP)
Keen Smell. The tsuchinoko has advantage on Wisdom
(Perception) checks that rely on smell.
Plant Camouflage. The tsuchinoko has advantage on
Dexterity (Stealth) checks it makes in any terrain with ample
obscuring plant life.
Standing Leap. The tsuchinoko’s long jump is up to 15 feet
and its high jump is up to 5 feet, with or without a running
start.
Multiattack. The tsuchinoko makes two Leaping Bite attacks.
The second attack is made with disadvantage and must be
against the same target as the first.
Leaping Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, reach 10
ft., one target. Hit: 1 piercing damage plus 5 (2d4) poison
damage.
Hoop Formation. The tsuchinoko bites its tail, forming a
hoop with its body. While in hoop formation, the tsuchinoko
has a walking speed of 60 feet and can’t use its Leaping
Bite. The tsuchinoko can end its Hoop Formation as a bonus
action.
Tiny, doglike creatures with slippery, hairless skin and
webbed claws, wharflings are occasionally chosen as
familiars by spellcasters who are unconcerned about their
personal appearance, who frequently engage in acts of
larceny, or who dwell in watery conditions.
Tiny beast, unaligned
Armor Class 13
Hit Points 6 (4d4 – 4)
Speed 30 ft., climb 30 ft., swim 20 ft.
4 (–3) 16 (+3) 8 (–1) 2 (–4) 12 (+1) 8 (–1)
Skills Perception +3, Sleight of Hand +5
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 13
295WIZARD'S ENTOURAGE
Languages —
Challenge 1/8 (25 XP)
Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target.
Hit: 5 (1d4 + 3) piercing damage, and the target is grappled
(escape DC 10). Until this grapple ends, the wharfling can’t
use its bite on another target. While the target is grappled,
the wharfling’s bite attack hits it automatically.
Pilfer. A wharfling that has an opponent grappled at the start
of its turn can make a Dexterity (Sleight of Hand) check as a
bonus action against a DC equal to 10 + the grappled target’s
Dexterity modifier. On a successful check, the wharfling
steals a small metallic object from the target, and the theft is
unnoticed if the check result equals or exceeds the target’s
passive Perception. A wharfling flees with its treasure.
Variant FamiliarsThis section expands the roster of potential familiars to
include several intelligent creatures with supernatural
abilities. The relationship between the familiar and its
master, and the benefits the master receives, resembles
how the imp, the quasit, and the pseudodragon are
presented as variant familiars in the standard rules.
If the GM allows the use of any of these variant familiars
by player characters, it might or might not be necessary
for the would-be master to start the process by casting find
familiar. Either way, a variant familiar is an actual creature
(not a spirit) that serves at its own discretion, obeying
its master’s commands only when doing so does not
immediately bring it harm, and it will not hesitate to end
the link with its master as a matter of self-preservation.
Unlike standard familiars, a variant familiar does not
disappear if it drops to 0 hit points; it simply dies or falls
unconscious (GM’s choice).
D
1 Abyssal worm
2 Alkonost
3 Crimson drake
4 Infernal viper
5 Kuunganisha
6 Leonino
7 Library automaton
8 Living shade
9 Stryx
10 Witchlight
11 Wolpertinger
12 Zoog
These creatures can be found in vast numbers in the lower
planes, mostly providing fodder for demons and other
denizens. Typically, an abyssal worm measures a foot to a
foot and a half in length, its body gray in color, with mossy
green and mustard yellow mottling. The worm’s mouth is
a round orifice ringed with sharp, needle-like teeth. The
worm’s skin exudes a slime that leaves a glistening trail in
its path.
Evil spellcasters often choose the abyssal worm as a
familiar as an intimidation tactic. The creature’s disgusting
appearance makes it an excellent tool for unnerving
others, especially if they aren’t hardened adventurers.
Abyssal worms are happy to serve as familiars, so long as
they get a steady diet of flesh and the chance to torment
the living.
Familiar. If an abyssal worm agrees to serve another
creature as a familiar, it forms a telepathic bond with its
master. While the two are bonded, the master can sense
what the abyssal worm senses, as long as they are within
1 mile of each other. While the abyssal worm is within 10
feet of its master, the master gains the worm’s immunity to
poison damage and the poisoned condition. If its master
causes it physical harm, or if it simply chooses to do so,
the abyssal worm will abandon its service as a familiar,
breaking the telepathic bond.
Tiny monstrosity, neutral evil
Armor Class 13
Hit Points 21 (6d4+6)
Speed 20 ft., burrow 20 ft.
7 (–2) 16 (+3) 13 (+1) 4 (–3) 12 (+1) 7 (–2)
Skills Perception +3, Stealth +5
Damage Resistances cold, fire, bludgeoning from
nonmagical weapons
Damage Immunities poison
Condition Immunities poisoned
Senses blindsight 30 ft., passive Perception 13
Languages —
Challenge 1/4 (50 XP)
Stench. Any creature other than an abyssal worm that starts
its turn within 5 feet of the abyssal worm must succeed on
a DC 13 Constitution saving throw or be poisoned until
the start of the creature's next turn. On a successful saving
throw, the creature is immune to the stench of all abyssal
worms for 1 hour.
Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, 5 ft. reach, one target.
Hit: 5 (1d4+3) piercing damage plus 1 poison damage, and
296WIZARD'S ENTOURAGE
the abyssal worm attaches to the target. While attached,
the abyssal worm doesn't attack. Instead, at the start of the
abyssal worm's turn, the target loses 5 (1d4+3) hit points
due to blood loss and also takes 1 poison damage.
The abyssal worm can detach itself by spending 5 feet of
movement. It does so after draining 10 hit points of blood
from its target or when the target dies. A creature, including
the target, can use an action to detach the abyssal worm.
The alkonost is a graceful bird that has the face of a
beautiful man or woman. Flocks of these creatures lurk
on the edges of dark clouds. Their plumage is the color
of storms, ranging from light gray to dark slate with a
shimmer of green or violet hue on the eldest.
Familiar. If an alkonost agrees to serve another creature
as a familiar, it forms a telepathic bond with its master.
While the two are bonded, the master can sense what the
alkonost senses, as long as they are within 1 mile of each
other. While the alkonost is within 10 feet of its master,
the master shares the alkonost’s One with Wind trait. If its
master causes it physical harm, or if it simply chooses to
do so, the alkonost will abandon its service as a familiar,
ending the telepathic bond.
Small monstrosity, neutral
Armor Class 12
Hit Points 17 (5d6)
Speed 20 ft., fly 40 ft.
11 (+0) 14 (+2) 10 (+0) 7 (–2) 14 (+2) 13 (+1)
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 12
Damage Resistances lightning
Languages Common
Challenge 1/2 (100 XP)
One with Wind. An alkonost is immune to the effects of
magical and natural wind, including effects that would
force it to move, would impose disadvantage on Wisdom
(Perception) checks, or would force it to land when flying.
Claws. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one
creature. Hit: 4 (1d4 + 2) slashing damage. The alkonost's
weapon attacks deal an extra 2 (1d4) lightning damage if it
is within 1 mile of a lightning storm.
Charged Melody (Recharge 6). The alkonost sings a beautiful
melody. Each creature within 30 feet of it that can hear the
melody must succeed on a DC 12 Charisma saving throw or
take 7 (2d6) lightning damage the next time it moves.
An evil drake that resembles a pseudodragon, the
crimson drake is a popular familiar among evil evokers,
particularly those who favor fire magic. An evil warlock
who has the Pact of the Chain can acquire a crimson drake
companion in place of a quasit, while an evil wizard can
procure the services of one through treats and sacrifices
worth at least 150 gp.
Familiar. If a crimson drake agrees to serve another
creature as a familiar, it forms a telepathic bond with its
master. While the two are bonded, the master can sense
what the crimson drake senses, as long as they are within
1 mile of each other. While the crimson drake is within
10 feet of its master, the master shares the drake’s Magic
Resistance trait. At any time and for any reason, the
drake can abandon its service as a familiar, ending the
telepathic bond.
Tiny dragon, chaotic evil
Armor Class 14 (natural armor)
Hit Points 54 (12d4 + 24)
Speed 15 ft., fly 80 ft.
10 (+0) 14 (+2) 14 (+2) 8 (–1) 9 (–1) 14 (+2)
Saving Throws Dex +4
Skills Acrobatics +4, Perception +1
Damage Immunities fire
Condition Immunities paralyzed, unconscious
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 11
Languages Common, Draconic, telepathy 60 ft.
Challenge 1 (200 XP)
Magic Resistance. The drake has advantage on saving
throws against spells and other magical effects.
Multiattack. The crimson drake makes one bite attack and
one stinger attack.
Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target.
Hit: 5 (1d6 + 2) piercing damage plus 4 (1d8) fire damage.
Stinger. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one
target. Hit: 4 (1d4 + 2) piercing damage, and the target
must succeed on a DC 13 Constitution saving throw or
become poisoned for 1 hour. If the saving throw fails by 5 or
more, the target takes 2 (1d4) poison damage at the start of
each of its turns for 3 rounds. A target poisoned in this way
can the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending
the condition on a success.
Breath Weapon (Recharge 6). The drake exhales fire in a
15-foot cone. Each target in that cone takes 18 (4d8) fire
damage, or half as much damage with a successful DC 12
Dexterity saving throw.
297WIZARD'S ENTOURAGE
Infernal vipers resemble earthly vipers, but for the red
and black patterns of their scales. They roam the Hells,
tormenting the damned souls with their painful bites and
burning venom. They have a dim intelligence that makes
them more dangerous than common snakes.
Familiar. If an infernal viper agrees to serve another
creature as a familiar, it forms a telepathic bond with its
master. While the two are bonded, the master can sense
what the infernal viper senses, as long as they are within 1
mile of each other. While the infernal viper is within 10 feet
of its master, the master gains the viper’s resistance to fire
damage. If its master causes it physical harm, or if it simply
chooses to do so, the viper will abandon its service as a
familiar, breaking the telepathic bond.
Tiny fiend, neutral evil
Armor Class 13
Hit Points 28 (8d4 + 8)
Speed 30 ft., swim 30 ft.
5 (–3) 17 (+3) 13 (+1) 3 (–4) 12 (+1) 6 (–2)
Skills Perception +3, Stealth +5
Damage Resistances fire
Senses blindsight 10 ft., passive Perception 13
Languages understands Infernal but can't speak
Challenge 1/2 (100 XP)
Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target.
Hit: 5 (1d4+3) piercing damage; target must make a DC 13
Constitution saving throw, taking 5 (2d4) poison damage on
a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.
The kuunganisha is a type of fiend that appears to have
been specifically created by the powers of villainy to serve
as a familiar. An evil warlock who has the Pact of the Chain
can summon a kuunganisha in place of a quasit or an imp,
while a wizard can acquire one only by casting a planar
binding spell (though the kuunganisha serves the wizard
permanently in this case, rather than for just 24 hours).
Familiar. If a kuunganisha agrees to serve another
creature as a familiar, it forms a telepathic bond with its
master. While the two are bonded, the master can sense
what the kuunganisha senses, as long as they are within 1
mile of each other. While the kuunganisha is within 10 feet
of its master, the master gains the kuunganisha’s Magic
Resistance trait. If its master causes it physical harm, or if
it simply chooses to do so, the kuunganisha will abandon
its service as a familiar, breaking the telepathic bond.
Small fiend, any evil
Armor Class 13
Hit Points 17 (5d6)
Speed 20 ft., fly 40 ft.
6 (–2) 17 (+3) 11 (+0) 10 (+0) 12 (+1) 13 (+1)
Skills Insight +3, Stealth +5
Damage Resistances fire, lightning; bludgeoning, piercing,
and slashing from nonmagical attacks not made with silver
Damage Immunities poison
Condition Immunities poisoned
Senses darkvision 120 ft., passive Perception 11
Languages Abyssal, Common, Infernal
Challenge 2 (450 XP)
Fiend Sight. Magical darkness doesn’t impede the fiend’s
darkvision.
Magic Resistance. The kuunganisha has advantage on saving
throws against spells and other magical effects.
Regeneration. The kuunganisha regains 1 hp at the start of
its turn if it has at least 1 hp.
Will of the Master. The master of a kuunganisha familiar can
cast a spell through the creature, using the fiend’s senses
to target the spell. The range limitations are treated as if
the spell originated from the kuunganisha, not the master.
The spell effect occurs on the kuunganisha’s turn, though
the master must cast the spell during the master’s turn.
Concentration spells must still be maintained by the master.
Multiattack. The kuunganisha makes one claw attack and
one bite attack.
Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target.
Hit: 5 (1d4 + 3) piercing damage, and the target must
succeed on a DC 13 Constitution saving throw or take 5
(2d4) poison damage and become poisoned for 1 minute.
The target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of
its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success.
Claw. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target.
Hit: 8 (2d4 + 3) slashing damage.
Invisibility. The kuunganisha magically turns invisible until it
attacks, or until its concentration ends (as if concentrating
on a spell). Any equipment the fiend wears or carries
becomes invisible with it.
Appearing as a wild cat with hawk-like wings, the leonino
is a much sought-after familiar by elf wizards, particularly
those who have an affinity for air or wind. Acquiring a
leonino familiar requires the casting of the find familiar
spell, with an additional offering of fine fish and at least
200 feet of dyed red yarn. Once the spell is cast, the wizard
makes a Charisma check contested by the leonino’s
Charisma check. If the leonino wins the contest, the
298WIZARD'S ENTOURAGE
creature flies off and the wizard is hated and distrusted by
all feline creatures for at least a month.
Familiar. If a leonino agrees to serve another creature
as a familiar, it forms a telepathic bond with its master.
While the two are bonded, the master can sense what the
leonino senses, as long as they are within 1 mile of each
other. While the leonino is within 10 feet of its master,
the master gains the leonino’s Evasion trait. If its master
causes it physical harm, or if it simply chooses to do so,
the leonino will abandon its service as a familiar, breaking
the telepathic bond.
Tiny beast, unaligned
Armor Class 13
Hit Points 13 (3d4 + 6)
Speed 30 ft., fly 40 ft.
10 (+0) 16 (+3) 14 (+2) 8 (–1) 8 (–1) 12 (+1)
Saving Throws Wis +1, Dex +5
Skills Perception +1, Persuasion +3, Stealth +5
Senses darkvision 30 ft., passive Perception 11
Languages Elvish
Challenge 1/8 (25 XP)
Flyby. The leonino doesn’t provoke opportunity attacks when
it flies out of an enemy’s reach.
Evasion. If the leonino is subjected to an effect that allows it
to make a Dexterity saving throw to take only half damage,
the leonino instead takes no damage if it succeeds on the
saving throw, and only half damage if it fails.
Silent Wings. The flight of a leonino is especially silent
and difficult to notice in forests and urban settings. It has
advantage on Dexterity (Stealth) checks made while flying in
these areas.
Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target.
Hit: 5 (1d4 + 3) slashing damage. If this is the first time
the leonino has hit the target within the past 24 hours, the
target must succeed on a DC 10 Wisdom saving throw or be
charmed by the leonino for 1 hour.
These strange-looking constructs are unusually intelligent
for creatures of their type and will sometimes serve a
lawful or neutral spellcaster (though never a chaotic one)
as a familiar.
Familiar. If a library automaton agrees to serve another
creature as a familiar, it forms a telepathic bond with its
master. While the two are bonded, the master can sense
what the library automaton senses, as long as they are
within 1 mile of each other. While the automaton is within
10 feet of its master, the master gains the automaton’s
immunity to poison damage and the poisoned condition.
If its master causes it physical harm, or if it simply chooses
to do so, the automaton will abandon its service as a
familiar, breaking the telepathic bond.
Small construct, lawful neutral
Armor Class 13 (natural armor)
Hit Points 7 (2d6)
Speed 30 ft.
8 (–1) 13 (+1) 10 (+0) 14 (+2) 12 (+1) 8 (–1)
Skills History +4, Investigation +4
Damage Immunities poison
Condition Immunities charmed, poisoned
Senses blindsight 60 ft., truesight 10 ft., passive Perception 11
Languages Common
Challenge 1/2 (100 XP)
Extradimensional Book Repository. A small door
on the chest of the library automaton opens into an
extradimensional bookcase. This bookcase functions exactly
as a bag of holding, except that it can store only written
materials, such as books, scrolls, tomes, parchment, folders,
notebooks, spellbooks, and the like.
Gaze of Confusion. The library automaton chooses one
creature it can see within 40 feet. The target must succeed
on a DC 12 Intelligence saving throw or take 9 (3d4 + 2)
psychic damage and have disadvantage on Intelligence-
based checks, saving throws, and attack rolls until the end
of its next turn. On a successful save, the target takes half as
much damage and suffers no other effect.
Bibliotelekinesis. This ability functions as the mage hand
cantrip but can be used only on books, scrolls, maps, and
other printed or written materials.
One of the rarer and more bizarre options for a familiar
is the living shade, a fey creature often confused with
undead creatures such as the shadow. Illusionists,
wizards who specialize in shadow, and Pact of the
Archfey warlocks are the most common masters of these
creatures. Obtaining a living shade by casting the find
familiar spell requires an additional material component:
50 gp worth of powdered jet.
Familiar. If a living shade agrees to serve another
creature as a familiar, it forms a telepathic bond with its
master. While the two are bonded, the master can sense
what the living shade senses, as long as they are within 1
mile of each other. While the living shade is within 10 feet
of its master, the master gains the living shade’s Shadow
299WIZARD'S ENTOURAGE
Stealth trait. If its master causes it physical harm, or if it
simply chooses to do so, the shade will abandon its service
as a familiar, breaking the telepathic bond.
Medium fey, neutral
Armor Class 12
Hit Points 18 (4d8)
Speed 40 ft.
6 (–2) 14 (+2) 10 (+0) 9 (–1) 10 (+0) 12 (+1)
Skills Stealth +6
Damage Vulnerabilities radiant
Damage Resistances acid, cold, fire, lightning, thunder;
bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing from nonmagical attacks
Damage Immunities necrotic, poison
Condition Immunities exhaustion, frightened, grappled,
paralyzed, petrified, poisoned, prone, restrained
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 10
Languages understands Common but can’t speak
Challenge 1/4 (100 XP)
Amorphous. The living shade can move through a space as
narrow as 1 inch wide without squeezing.
Shadow Stealth. While in dim light or darkness, the living
shade can take the Hide action as a bonus action.
Sunlight Sensitivity. While in sunlight, the living shade
has disadvantage on attack rolls, as well as on Wisdom
(Perception) checks that rely on sight.
Shadow Touch. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft.,
one target. Hit: 2 (1d4) cold damage.
STRYX
Owl-like monstrosities with vaguely human-like heads,
stryx sometimes serve mortal spellcasters, particularly one
of elven blood or one who has some tie to the fey, such as a
half-elf enchanter or a warlock whose patron is the Archfey.
Familiar. If a stryx agrees to serve another creature as a
familiar, it forms a telepathic bond with its master. While
the two are bonded, the master can sense what the stryx
senses, as long as they are within 1 mile of each other.
While the stryx is within 10 feet of its master, the master
senses, the benefit of the spell whenever the stryx casts
comprehend languages. If its master causes it physical harm,
or if it simply chooses to do so, the stryx will abandon its
service as a familiar, breaking the telepathic bond.
STRYX
Tiny monstrosity, neutral
Armor Class 13
Hit Points 10 (4d4)
Speed 10 ft., fly 60 ft.
3 (–4) 17 (+3) 11 (+0) 8 (–1) 15 (+2) 6 (–2)
Skills Perception +4, Stealth +5
Senses darkvision 120 ft., passive Perception 14
Languages Common, Elvish
Challenge 1/8 (25 XP)
False Appearance. Until a stryx speaks or opens its mouth, it
is indistinguishable from a normal owl.
Flyby. The stryx doesn’t provoke opportunity attacks when it
flies out of an enemy’s reach.
Innate Spellcasting. The stryx’s innate spellcasting ability
is Wisdom. It can cast the following spell, requiring no
components:
3/day: comprehend languages
Keen Hearing and Sight. The stryx has advantage on
Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on hearing or sight.
Talons. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one
target. Hit: 1 slashing damage.
These tiny constructs that resemble will-o-wisps are
similar to homunculi, in that they are created (from pieces
of quartz) and animated by their creators rather than
brought into being by the spell. Conjurers and spellcasters
who concentrate on illumination and light magic are the
most common masters of these constructs.
Familiar. If a witchlight agrees to serve another creature
as a familiar, it forms a telepathic bond with its master.
While the two are bonded, the master can sense what
the witchlight senses, as long as they are within 1 mile of
each other. While the witchlight is within 10 feet of its
master, the master gains the witchlight’s immunity to
poison damage and the poisoned condition. If its master
causes it physical harm, or if it simply chooses to do so, the
witchlight will abandon its service as a familiar, breaking
the telepathic bond.
Tiny construct, neutral
Armor Class 14
Hit Points 10 (4d4)
Speed fly 50 ft.
1 (–5) 18 (+4) 10 (+0) 10 (+0) 13 (+1) 7 (–2)
300WIZARD'S ENTOURAGE
Skills Perception +3
Damage Immunities poison, radiant
Condition Immunities charmed, exhaustion, frightened,
paralyzed, petrified, poisoned
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 13
Languages understands the language of its creator but can’t
speak
Challenge 1/4 (50 XP)
Dispel Magic Weakness. Casting dispel magic on a witchlight
paralyzes it for 1d10 rounds.
Luminance. A witchlight normally glows as brightly as a
torch. The creature can dim itself to the luminosity of a
candle, but it cannot extinguish its light. Because of its
glow, the witchlight has disadvantage on Dexterity (Stealth)
checks.
Thin as Light. Although a witchlight is not incorporeal, it can
pass through any opening that light can.
Light Ray. Ranged Weapon Attack: +6 to hit, range 30 ft., one
target. Hit: 6 (1d4 + 4) radiant damage.
Flash (Recharge 5–6). The witchlight emits a bright burst
of light that causes any sighted creature within 30 feet to
be blinded for 1d4 rounds unless it succeeds on a DC 10
Constitution saving throw.
Woodland-dwelling monstrosities, wolpertingers are
popular familiars among gnomish wizards but will serve
just about any spellcaster if they are treated with care and
respect. Since these creatures are more powerful than a
standard familiar, 25 gp worth of holly berries must also be
expended as part of the casting of the find familiar spell.
Familiar. If a wolpertinger agrees to serve another
creature as a familiar, it forms a telepathic bond with its
master. While the two are bonded, the master can sense
what the wolpertinger senses, as long as they are within 1
mile of each other. While the wolpertinger is within 10 feet
of its master, the master gains the wolpertinger’s Standing
Leap trait. If its master causes it physical harm, or if it
simply chooses to do so, the wolpertinger will abandon its
service as a familiar, breaking the telepathic bond.
Tiny monstrosity, unaligned
Armor Class 13
Hit Points 9 (2d4 + 4)
Speed 30 ft., burrow 10 ft., fly 30 ft.
6 (–2) 16 (+3) 14 (+2) 5 (–3) 12 (+1) 6 (–2)
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 11
Languages —
Challenge 1/4 (50 XP)
Charge. If the wolpertinger moves at least 10 feet straight
toward a target and then hits it with a gore attack on the
same turn, the target takes an extra 2 (1d4) piercing damage.
Flyby. The wolpertinger doesn’t provoke an opportunity
attack when it flies out of an enemy’s reach.
Standing Leap. The wolpertinger’s long jump is up to 20 feet
and its high jump is up to 10 feet, with or without a running
start.
Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target.
Hit: 5 (1d4 + 3) piercing damage.
Gore. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target.
Hit: 5 (1d4 + 3) piercing damage.
Keening (Recharge 6). The wolpertinger emits a piercing
shriek. Each creature within 30 feet that can hear the
wolpertinger must succeed on a DC 13 Constitution
saving throw or be deafened for 1 minute. A beast with
an Intelligence of 4 or lower that is in the area must also
succeed on a DC 13 Wisdom saving throw or be frightened
until the start of its next turn.
ZOOG
Alien-looking creatures, zoogs are intelligent and will
serve an evil-aligned spellcaster as a familiar with the
correct sort of inducement (normally the sacrifice of a cat
or other feline creature).
Familiar. If a zoog agrees to serve another creature as a
familiar, it forms a telepathic bond with its master. While
the two are bonded, the master can sense what the zoog
senses, as long as they are within 1 mile of each other. If its
master causes it physical harm, or if it simply chooses to do
so, the zoog will abandon its service as a familiar, breaking
the telepathic bond.
ZOOG
Tiny aberration, chaotic evil
Armor Class 13
Hit Points 3 (1d4 + 1)
Speed 30 ft., climb 30 ft.
3 (–4) 16 (+3) 12 (+1) 11 (+0) 10 (+0) 8 (–1)
Skills Perception +2, Stealth +5
Senses darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 12
Languages Deep Speech, Void Speech
Challenge 0 (10 XP)
Bite. Melee Weapon Attack: +5 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target.
Hit: 1 piercing damage.
Clockwork magic is a style of magic from the Midgard
Campaign Setting, divinely granted to humans and
dwarves by the goddess Rava, patron of industry and
mistress of time.
If you play in Midgard, or if you want to add clockwork
magic to your game, this category of magic includes
several temporal magic spells and some of the spells
described earlier in this book. For additional, specific
spells to heal or control clockworks, see the Midgard
Heroes Handbook.
FAMILIARSA wizard who embraces clockwork magic can use the find
familiar spell in a special way. A small clockwork device
in the form of an animal (worth 10 gp) is substituted for
the spell’s usual material component. The device must
resemble one of the allowable animals listed in the spell.
When the casting is complete, the clockwork animates.
It has the statistics of the chosen animal form, but is a
construct, rather than a beast.
A clockwork familiar’s form can be changed by rebuilding
the clockwork device into a new form of animal and
casting the spell again. If the familiar is destroyed, it can
be rebuilt (in the same form or a new one) with the same
components, if they are recovered; otherwise, 10 gp must
be spent on replacement parts.
Clockwork magic
Spell ListsAll spellcasters can cast some number of clockwork spells,
as borne out in the lists that follow. The spells in these lists
that carry a “[temporal]” tag can be found in the Temporal
Magic section. Other spells appear either earlier in this
book or in the standard rules.
CANTRIPS (0 LEVEL)
Clockwork bolt (evocation)
Mending (transmutation)
Quicken (transmutation) [temporal]
Clockwork Magic
Analyze device (divination)
Pendulum (enchantment)
Tireless (transmutation)
Heartstop (necromancy)
Knock (transmutation)
Locate object (divination)
Time step (conjuration) [temporal]
Accelerate (transmutation) [temporal]
Reset (transmutation) [temporal]
Time loop (transmutation) [temporal]
Time jump (transmutation) [temporal]
Time in a bottle (transmutation) [temporal]
CANTRIPS (0 LEVEL)
Clockwork bolt (evocation)
Fist of iron (transmutation)
Mending (transmutation)
Quicken (transmutation) [temporal]
Pendulum (enchantment)
Locate object (divination)
Time step (conjuration) [temporal]
Accelerate (transmutation) [temporal]

Reset (transmutation) [temporal]
Chains of the goddess (enchantment)
Clockwork bodyguard (conjuration)
Wall of time (abjuration) [temporal]
Time loop (transmutation) [temporal]
Ravages of time (transmutation)
Time in a bottle (transmutation) [temporal]
Decelerate (transmutation) [temporal]
Accelerate (transmutation) [temporal]
Reset (transmutation) [temporal]
Time loop (transmutation) [temporal]
Pendulum (enchantment)
Decelerate (transmutation) [temporal]
Locate object (divination)
Reset (transmutation) [temporal]
Decelerate (transmutation) [temporal]
Time step (conjuration) [temporal]
CANTRIPS (0 LEVEL)
Fist of iron (transmutation)
Mending (transmutation)
Quicken (transmutation) [temporal]
Chronal lance (transmutation) [temporal]
Pendulum (enchantment)
Tireless (transmutation)
Decelerate (transmutation) [temporal]
Gear barrage (conjuration)
Greater analyze device (divination)
Knock (transmutation)
Lock armor (transmutation)
Spin (enchantment)
Accelerate (transmutation) [temporal]
Haste (transmutation)
Slow (transmutation)
Thousand darts (evocation)
Steam blast (evocation)
Time vortex (evocation) [temporal]
Clockwork bodyguard (conjuration)
Wall of time (abjuration) [temporal]
Catapult (transmutation)
Time loop (transmutation) [temporal]
Ravages of time (transmutation)
Time jump (transmutation) [temporal]
Time in a bottle (transmutation) [temporal]
Time stop (transmutation) [temporal]
CANTRIPS (0 LEVEL)
Clockwork bolt (evocation)
Fist of iron (transmutation)
Mending (transmutation)
Decelerate (transmutation) [temporal]
Gear barrage (conjuration)
Heartstop (necromancy)
Lock armor (transmutation)
Spin (enchantment)
Time step (conjuration) [temporal]
Thousand darts (evocation)
Steam blast (evocation)
Time vortex (evocation) [temporal]
Catapult (transmutation)
Time loop (transmutation) [temporal]
Steam whistle (evocation)
Time slippage (enchantment) [temporal]
CANTRIPS (0 LEVEL)
Fist of iron (transmutation)
Mending (transmutation)
Quicken (transmutation) [temporal]
Analyze device (divination)
Chronal lance (transmutation) [temporal]
Grease (conjuration)
Pendulum (enchantment)
Tireless (transmutation)
Arcane lock (abjuration)
Decelerate (transmutation) [temporal]
Gear barrage (conjuration)
Greater analyze device (divination)
Heartstop (necromancy)
Knock (transmutation)
Locate object (divination)
Lock armor (transmutation)
Spin (enchantment)
Time step (conjuration) [temporal]
Accelerate (transmutation) [temporal]
Haste (transmutation)
Slow (transmutation)
Thousand darts (evocation)
Reset (transmutation) [temporal]
Steam blast (evocation)
Time vortex (evocation) [temporal]
Clockwork bodyguard (conjuration)
Wall of time (abjuration) [temporal]
Catapult (transmutation)
Time loop (transmutation) [temporal]
Ravages of time (transmutation)
Steam whistle (evocation)
Time jump (transmutation) [temporal]
Time slippage (enchantment) [temporal]
Time in a bottle (transmutation) [temporal]
Time stop (transmutation) [temporal]
The minotaurs created what they call “labyrinth magic”
long ago, a result of their fascination with and mastery
of mazes. Spells of this sort tend to involve elements
of confusion, dimensional manipulation, and the
strengthening of the minotaur’s natural weapons. They
are rarely taught to outsiders.
Labyrinth magic
Spell Lists
All spellcasting characters except paladins have access to a
selection of labyrinth spells, as given below.
Broken charge (enchantment)
Dimensional shove (conjuration)
Labyrinth mastery (divination)
By the light of the moon (divination)
Crushing trample (transmutation)
Furious hooves (transmutation)
Confound senses (enchantment)
Moon trap (abjuration)
By the light of the moon (divination)
Crushing trample (transmutation)
Elemental horns (evocation)
Furious hooves (transmutation)
Labyrinth Magic
Moon trap (abjuration)
Thunderous charge (transmutation)
By the light of the moon (divination)
Crushing trample (transmutation)
Elemental horns (evocation)
Labyrinth mastery (divination)
CANTRIP (0 LEVEL)
Misstep (enchantment)
Thunderous charge (transmutation)
Crushing trample (transmutation)
Elemental horns (evocation)
Furious hooves (transmutation)
Thunderous stampede (transmutation)
Confound senses (enchantment)
Lesser maze (conjuration)
Labyrinth mastery (divination)
Labyrinthine howl (illusion)
Walk the twisted path (conjuration)
Maze (conjuration)

Greater maze (conjuration)
Broken charge (enchantment)
Thunderous charge (transmutation)
Thunderous stampede (transmutation)
Confound senses (enchantment)
Dimensional shove (conjuration)
Lesser maze (conjuration)
Labyrinth mastery (divination)
Moon trap (abjuration)
CANTRIP (0 LEVEL)
Misstep (enchantment)
Broken charge (enchantment)
Thunderous charge (transmutation)
By the light of the moon (divination)
Elemental horns (evocation)
Furious hooves (transmutation)
Thunderous stampede (transmutation)
Confound senses (enchantment)
Dimensional shove (conjuration)
Lesser maze (conjuration)
Labyrinth mastery (divination)
Moon trap (abjuration)
Labyrinthine howl (illusion)
Walk the twisted path (conjuration)
Maze (conjuration)
Greater maze (conjuration)
This appendix is intended primarily for the GM’s use in
equipping villains and other NPCs with particularly vile
or dangerous sorts of magic. Although it is possible that
some of these spells will find their way into the hands
of spellcasting player characters, most good-aligned
characters might (understandably) have doubts about
using magic fueled by bloodletting, the forces of the
Void, or the Elder Gods. How far the GM allows player
characters to progress along this dark path is an individual
decision, but it should be clear from the nature of the
material that anyone who uses these purely maleficent
forms of magic must be prepared to accept the unpleasant
and sometimes debilitating consequences.
The tradition of apocalypse magic is one road that evil
wizards and other arcane casters can follow to power.
It also leads clerics and prophets into the service of
ambitious, destructive deities.
Entropy is sometimes seen as synonymous with death
and the end of days. In truth, it’s a facet of nature as
inescapable as the four elements and the laws of alchemy.
Doomsday cults relish the approaching apocalypse,
espousing love while threatening damnation for
unbelievers; kings and lords threaten to tear down all of
civilization just to add a new province to their realms.
Apocalypse magic isn’t widely practiced, because of its
inherent destructiveness. At the same time, practitioners
can be found in a vast variety of situations. Devotees
of dark lords, emissaries of hostile interplanar beings,
leaders of vicious cults, and a host of other villainous
threats might be workers of apocalypse magic.
When and where this branch of magic originated is
unknown. Some scholars see it as the ultimate expression
of natural law, while others consider it a divine gift or the
manifestation of a chaotic deity’s will. Whatever its source,
apocaplyse magic’s potential to harm, weaken, terrify, and
empower makes it one of the most dangerous magical arts.
All spellcasting classes except for the ranger have access
to certain kinds of apocalypse magic, as shown in the
following lists.
CANTRIPS (0 LEVEL)
Vicious mockery (enchantment)
Bane (enchantment)
Proselytize (enchantment)
Enthrall (enchantment)
Grave sense (divination)
Bestow curse (necromancy)
Fear (illusion)
Glimpse the end (divination)
Confusion (enchantment)
Frailform (enchantment)
CANTRIPS (0 LEVEL)
Hand of doom (necromancy)
Brimstone (conjuration)
Grim siphon (necromancy)
Proselytize (enchantment)
Withering smite (necromancy)
Dark Magic

Grave sense (divination)
Jerilyn’s cadaverous uprising (necromancy)
Prayer of resolve (evocation)
Bestow curse (necromancy)
Glimpse the end (divination)
Caustic waste (evocation)
Servant of doom (transmutation)
Detonate corpses (necromancy)
Insect plague (conjuration)
Souleater (evocation)
Find the path (divination)
Investiture of blight (transmutation)
Transmogrification (transmutation)
Earthquake (evocation)
Grim siphon (necromancy)
Magma spray (transmutation)
Glimpse the end (divination)
Blight (necromancy)
Caustic waste (evocation)
Servant of doom (transmutation)
Insect plague (conjuration)
Investiture of blight (transmutation)
Transmogrification (transmutation)
Earthquake (evocation)
Frailform (enchantment)
Withering smite (necromancy)
Prayer of resolve (evocation)
Hellfire blitz (evocation)
Aura of entropy (abjuration)
Brimstone (conjuration)
Grim siphon (necromancy)
Magma spray (transmutation)
Fear (illusion)
Forceful repurposing (abjuration)
Glimpse the end (divination)
Hellfire blitz (evocation)
Blight (necromancy)
Confusion (enchantment)
Servant of doom (transmutation)
Insect plague (conjuration)
Investiture of blight (transmutation)
Transmogrification (transmutation)

Earthquake (evocation)
Black hole (conjuration)
CANTRIPS (0 LEVEL)
Hand of doom (necromancy)
Brimstone (conjuration)
Enthrall (enchantment)
Grim siphon (necromancy)
Hellish rebuke (evocation)
Proselytize (enchantment)
Magma spray (transmutation)
Ray of enfeeblement (necromancy)
Fear (illusion)
Forceful repurposing (abjuration)
Glimpse the end (divination)
Hellfire blitz (evocation)
Blight (necromancy)
Caustic waste (evocation)
Confusion (enchantment)
Servant of doom (transmutation)
Contact other plane (divination)
Detonate corpses (necromancy)
Souleater (evocation)
Investiture of blight (transmutation)
Transmogrification (transmutation)
Frailform (enchantment)
CANTRIPS (0 LEVEL)
Hand of doom (necromancy)
Brimstone (conjuration)
Grave sense (divination)
Jerilyn’s cadaverous uprising (necromancy)
Magma spray (transmutation)
Ray of enfeeblement (necromancy)
Bestow curse (necromancy)
Fear (illusion)
Forceful repurposing (abjuration)
Glimpse the end (divination)
Blight (necromancy)
Caustic waste (evocation)
Confusion (enchantment)
Contact other plane (divination)
Detonate corpses (necromancy)
Souleater (evocation)
Investiture of blight (transmutation)
Transmogrification (transmutation)
Frailform (enchantment)
Black hole (conjuration)

The following spells are presented in alphabetical order.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: AURA OF ENTROPY
Level: 4
School: Abjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self (30-foot radius)
Components: V
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
Description:
Sickening energy radiates out from you in a sphere with
a 30-foot radius. While the spell lasts, the sphere remains
centered on you and moves with you. Each hostile creature
in the sphere has disadvantage on saving throws against
becoming frightened, paralyzed, poisoned, or stunned.
Creatures in the sphere can’t gain temporary hit points,
and any effect that restores hit points to a creature within
the sphere has those hit points reduced by an amount
equal to your spellcasting ability modifier (minimum of 1) .
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: BLACK HOLE
Level: 9
School: Conjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Description:
You create a tiny black hole at a point you can see within
range. The black hole is a sphere with a 15-foot radius. All
fires and flames within 40 feet of the black hole—magical
or otherwise—are instantly extinguished. Each creature
within 40 feet of the black hole when it appears must make
a Strength saving throw. On a failed save, the creature
takes 20d6 force damage and is pulled to within 5 feet of
the black hole. On a successful save, the creature takes half
as much damage and is knocked prone but isn’t pulled
toward the black hole.
A creature that’s within 5 feet of the black hole at the
start of its turn must make a successful Strength saving
throw or take 8d6 force damage and have its speed
reduced to 0 until the start of its next turn. A creature
that’s within 40 feet of the black hole (but not within 5
feet of it) at the end of its turn takes 2d6 cold damage. A
creature reduced to 0 hit points while within 5 feet of the
black hole dies immediately.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: BRIMSTONE
Level: 1
School: Conjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Description:
You conjure a hunk of sulfuric brimstone that materializes
in the air, then falls to the ground at a point within range.
Any creature occupying that space must make a successful
Dexterity saving throw or take 2d8 bludgeoning damage.
The brimstone remains in the space where it fell while
the spell persists. Each creature that starts its turn within
15 feet of the brimstone must make a successful Dexterity
saving throw or take 1d8 fire damage. The brimstone
can be destroyed; it has AC 8 and 12 hp. The brimstone
explodes if it takes fire damage; the explosion ends the
spell and deals 1d8 bludgeoning damage to all creatures
within 15 feet, or half as much damage to a creature that
makes a successful Dexterity saving throw.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 2nd level or higher, its fire damage increases by
1d8 for each slot level above 1st.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: CAUSTIC WASTE
Level: 4
School: Evocation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V, S, M (a vial of poison, acid, or other
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Description:
caustic substance)
You create either a rectangular pool of acid 50 feet long,
10 feet wide, and 5 feet deep, or a circular pool of acid
20 feet in diameter and 3 feet deep, in an open space you
can see within range. Each creature in the spell’s area
when the spell is cast takes 4d10 acid damage, or half as
much damage with a successful Dexterity saving throw. A
creature that enters the area on its turn or ends its turn in
the area takes 4d10 acid damage, or half as much damage
with a successful Dexterity saving throw. A creature can
take this damage only once per turn.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 5th level or higher, the damage increases by
1d10 for each slot level above 4th.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: DETONATE CORPSES
Level: 5
School: Necromancy
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 90 feet
Components: V, S, M (a gilded bone or a fossil worth at
Duration: Instantaneous
Description:
least 100 gp)
You cause up to five Small or Medium corpses that you can
see within range to explode in a hail of bone shards. Each
creature within 20 feet of a detonated corpse takes 4d10
piercing damage, or half as much damage with a successful
Dexterity saving throw.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 6th level or higher, the damage increases by
1d10 for each slot level above 5th.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: FORCEFUL REPURPOSING
Level: 3
School: Abjuration
Casting Time: 1 reaction, which you take when you see a
Range: 60 feet
Components: S
Duration: Instantaneous
Description:
creature within range casting a spell
You attempt to hijack a spell being cast and redirect it to
serve your purpose. If the spell is being cast with a spell
slot of 3rd level or lower, you choose the target or targets
for the spell instead of its caster. If the spell is being cast
with a spell slot of 4th level or higher, make an ability
check using your spellcasting ability against a DC of 12
+ the spell’s level. On a successful check, you choose the
target or targets for the spell.
Your targets must be valid targets for the spell based on
the caster’s ability and the range of the spell, but using
your distinctions for friendly and hostile creatures.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 4th level or higher, it works automatically (no
check required) against a spell being cast that uses a spell
slot of the same level or a lower one.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: FRAILFORM
Level: 8
School: Enchantment
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V, S, M (a mummified heart encased in
Duration: Instantaneous
Description:
amber, worth at least 1,500 gp)
You blast a creature within range with a beam of pure,
entropic energy that ages it rapidly. The target takes 4d6
necrotic damage and must make a successful Constitution
saving throw; on a failure, its Strength and Dexterity
are both reduced to 1. While its Strength and Dexterity
are reduced in this way, the creature can’t hold weapons
weighing more than 3 pounds, its speed is halved, and it
can’t take reactions. The creature’s Armor Class and attack
rolls are modified to account for its reduced attributes. The
creature can cast spells normally.
An affected creature can repeat the saving throw after
it finishes a long rest, ending the effect on a success. The
effect can also be ended by greater restoration, wish, or
comparable magic.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: GLIMPSE THE END
Level: 3
School: Divination
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components: V, M (a pinch of grave dust or a piece from
Duration: Instantaneous
Description:
a tombstone)
You examine the life force in a creature you touch and
sense when it will expire. You and the creature share a
vision of the most likely way in which the creature will die.
You both sense approximately how far into the future the
event occurs. The vision is not a prophecy or a definite fate;
life can take unexpected twists and turns. It is, however,
the most likely outcome at the current time unless the
creature alters the course of its life. The vision can seem to
last as little as a few moments or as long as 30 minutes to
you and the spell’s target, but in the objective world, the
knowledge is received instantaneously.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: GRAVE SENSE
Level: 2
School: Divination
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components: S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
Description:
You touch a willing undead creature or one that’s
under your control. For the duration of the spell, you
can use an action to see what the undead creature sees
(including through darkvision, blindsight, tremorsense,
or truesight), and to hear what it hears, until the start of
your next turn. You use your own ability scores and skill
proficiencies to spot things and to interpret the sensations
you’re receiving.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: GRIM SIPHON
Level: 1
School: Necromancy
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, M (the skull of a Tiny mammal or bird)
Duration: Instantaneous
Description:
You twist the forces of entropy around two creatures,
bringing distress to one while staving off the demise of
the other. A creature you can see within range must make
a successful Constitution saving throw or take poison
damage equal to 1d4 + your spellcasting ability modifier.
Another creature you choose that is within 5 feet of the
target regains hit points equal to half the amount of
poison damage dealt.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the poison damage
increases by 1d4 for each slot level above 1st.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: HAND OF DOOM
Level: cantrip
School: Necromancy
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
Description:
Your outstretched hand glows with sinister power that
hastens the demise of a creature you touch. Make a melee
spell attack against the creature. On a hit, the target
takes 1d4 necrotic damage and must make a successful
Constitution saving throw or become poisoned until the
end of your next turn. If the target was already poisoned
when you hit it with hand of doom, it takes 1d12 poison
damage instead of 1d4 necrotic damage on a failed save.
This spell’s damage increases by one die at 5th level (2d4
necrotic or 2d12 poison), 11th level (3d4 or 3d12), and 17th
level (4d4 or 4d12).
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: HELLFIRE BLITZ
Level: 3
School: Evocation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
Description:
Upon casting hellfire blitz, you assume a flaming spectral
form until the end of your turn. You immediately move up
to 40 feet in a straight line. You can move through spaces
occupied by other creatures, but you must end your turn
in an unoccupied space. This movement doesn’t provoke
opportunity attacks. Each creature whose space you pass
through takes 6d6 fire damage, or half as much damage
with a successful Dexterity saving throw.
You leave a 5-foot-wide line of hellfire burning behind
you in your path. This hellfire continues burning for
a number of rounds equal to your spellcasting ability
modifier. A creature that ends its turn in hellfire or passes
through the line on its turn takes 1d6 fire damage, or half
as much damage with a successful Dexterity saving throw.
A creature can take this damage only once per turn.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 4th level or higher, the damage increases by
1d6 for each slot level above 3rd.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: INVESTITURE OF BLIGHT
Level: 6
School: Transmutation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (a vial of ectoplasm or ghostly
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
Description:
essence)
Ghostly spirits emerge from your body and whirl around
you. Your body emits dim light in a 15-foot radius for
the spell’s duration. Until the spell ends, you gain the
following benefits:
• You have immunity to necrotic damage and resistance
to poison damage.
• Creatures that miss on melee attacks against you
become frightened of you until the end of their next
turn.
• You can use an action to direct the ghostly spirits to
assail a creature you can see within 15 feet of you. The
target must make a successful Constitution saving
throw or take 2d10 necrotic damage and gain one level
of exhaustion.
JERILYN’S CADAVEROUS UPRISING
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: JERILYN’S CADAVEROUS UPRISING
Level: 2
School: Necromancy
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (the severed hand of a humanoid
Duration: 1 hour
Description:
creature)
Specify a 5-foot-square space of natural ground (not solid
stone) that you can see within range, then choose any
undead creature of challenge rating 1 or lower (such as a
specter, ghoul, shadow, zombie, or skeleton). That creature
claws its way up out of the ground and immediately tries to
grapple or attack a creature within 5 feet.
The undead uses its standard stat block, but it has only 10
hit points and is prone until it stands up. It takes its turn
immediately after yours. You can use a bonus action to
issue a mental command to the undead when you cast the
spell, and you can change the command by using a bonus
action on your turn while the spell is active. Once given an
order, the creature continues to follow it until its task is
complete. If you issue no command, the creature defends
itself and attacks the last enemy that attacked it.
The creature remains under your control for 1 hour, after
which it crumbles to dust or disappears.
At Higher Levels. The number of undead you summon
increases when you cast this spell with a higher-level spell
slot: two when cast with a 5th-level slot, three with a 7th-
level slot, and four with a 9th-level slot.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: MAGMA SPRAY
Level: 2
School: Transmutation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 40 feet
Components: V, S, M (a pinch of sulfur or a piece of
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Description:
brimstone)
A 5-foot-diameter, 5-foot-tall cylindrical fountain
of magma erupts from the ground in a space of your
choice within range. A creature in that space takes 3d8
fire damage, or half as much damage with a successful
Dexterity saving throw. A creature that enters the area on
its turn or ends its turn there also takes 3d8 fire damage,
or half as much damage with a successful Dexterity saving
throw. A creature can take this damage only once per turn.
A creature whose hit points are reduced to 0 by this
damage is killed immediately, and its body burns to ash.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 3rd level or higher, the damage increases by
1d8 for each slot level above 2nd.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: PRAYER OF RESOLVE
Level: 2
School: Evocation
Casting Time: 1 minute
Range: 30 feet
Components: V
Duration: 1 hour
Description:
You remind your allies of the perseverance that will be
required of them. Each of up to six creatures you can see
within range gains temporary hit points equal to 1d10 +
your spellcasting ability modifier. This spell has no effect
on undead or constructs. The temporary hit points last for
1 hour.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 3rd level or higher, the temporary hit points
gained by each creature increase by 1d10 for each slot level
above 2nd.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: PROSELYTIZE
Level: 1
School: Enchantment
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self (10-foot radius)
Components: V, S, M (a holy symbol or religious tome,
Duration: Instantaneous
Description:
text, or pamphlet)
You imbue your words with darkness and fear, bringing
creatures around you to their knees. Every creature within
10 feet of you must make a Wisdom saving throw. On a
failed save, a creature is knocked prone and can’t take
reactions until the end of its next turn.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the radius of the effect
increases by 10 feet for each slot level above 1st.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: SERVANT OF DOOM
Level: 4
School: Transmutation
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: Self
Components: V
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Description:
A force of destruction gifts you a portion of its power.
Each time you cast this spell, you choose whether to
assume the form of the emissary or the form of the envoy
for the duration.
Emissary. The blood in your veins shines through
your skin, extra eyes open in your flesh, and you gain the
following benefits:
• You gain a flying speed equal to your walking speed and
the ability to hover, though you must stay within 5 feet
of the ground.
• You gain truesight out to a range of 60 feet.
• Creatures have disadvantage on Wisdom saving throws
against your spells and abilities.
• You have advantage on Intelligence- or Wisdom-based
attack rolls.
Envoy. Your skin becomes stonelike, bony growths erupt
across your body, and you gain the following benefits:
• You ignore difficult terrain for movement purposes.
• You can move through walls and other solid barriers if
you succeed on a Strength check you make just before
moving up to the barrier. The DC equals 10 + twice the
barrier’s thickness in feet.
• You have advantage on Strength- or Dexterity-based
attack rolls.
• Your melee weapon attacks deal an extra 1d6 slashing
damage on a hit.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: SOULEATER
Level: 5
School: Evocation
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
Description:
You instill a hunger for the life force of others into a
weapon you touch. Until the spell ends, the weapon emits
dim light in a 30-foot radius. In addition, weapon attacks
made with it deal an extra 2d8 necrotic damage on a hit.
If the weapon isn’t already a magic weapon, it becomes a
magic weapon with a +1 bonus to attack and damage rolls.
As a bonus action, you can dismiss this spell and cause
the weapon to emit a burst of radiance. Each creature of
your choice that you can see within 30 feet of you must
make a Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, the
creature takes 2d8 necrotic damage and you heal half that
many hit points. On a successful save, the creature takes
half as much damage and you do not heal.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: TRANSMOGRIFICATION
Level: 7
School: Transmutation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (a bit of flesh from a fiend, or a
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
Description:
feather from a celestial, each item worth at least 50 gp)
You elevate your body to a higher form. When you cast
the spell, choose three of the forms described below and
indicate which one’s effects will occur first. While the spell
lasts, you can use a bonus action to exchange one of your
choices for an unused one, or to make a new choice when
the current one ends. The spell ends when its duration
expires or when you expend all the available uses of the
third form you adopt.
Wings. You sprout wings from your shoulders and
gain a flying speed of 60 feet. The wings can be batlike or
feathered.
Breath Weapon. You gain a breath weapon of one of
these types of your choice: acid, cold, fire, lightning, or
poison. You can use an action to unleash your breath
weapon in a 15-foot line that is 5 feet wide. Each creature
in the line takes 8d6 damage of the chosen type, or half as
much damage with a successful Dexterity saving throw.
The breath weapon is considered a magical attack. You can
use this ability up to three times, and it expires after the
third use.
Limbs. Appendages resembling tentacles, spider legs,
pincers, or something else of your choosing sprout from
your body. Choose slashing, bludgeoning, or piercing
damage; you can use an action to make two melee weapon
attacks with your new limbs, and each attack deals 2d12
damage of the chosen type. You are proficient with these
weapons, and they have the reach and finesse properties.
Radiating Light. You emit light in a 10-foot radius. The
light can come from a halo, from ghostly flames, from your
eyes, or any other source you choose. The light deals your
choice of necrotic, fire, or radiant damage. A creature that
passes through the light on its turn or that ends its turn in
the light takes 2d10 damage of the chosen type, or half as
much damage with a successful Constitution saving throw.
A creature takes this damage only once per turn.
Regeneration. You regain 10 hit points at the start of
your turn. You can use this ability up to three times, and it
expires after the third use.
Overwhelming Might. When you hit a target with a
weapon attack, the target takes an extra 2d8 force damage
and must succeed on a Strength saving throw or be
knocked prone.
Frightening Presence. As an action, choose any number
of creatures within 30 feet of you that can see you. Each of
them must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or become
frightened of you for 1 minute. A creature frightened in
this way can repeat the saving throw at the end of each
of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. If a
creature’s saving throw is successful or the effect ends for
it, the creature is immune to your frightening presence
for the next 24 hours. You can use this ability up to three
times, and it expires after the third use.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: WITHERING SMITE
Level: 1
School: Necromancy
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: Self
Components: V
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Description:
Your weapon radiates terrible energy that empowers the
next strike you make with it. The next time you hit with
a melee weapon attack during this spell’s duration, your
attack deals an extra 1d6 necrotic damage.
If the target of that attack was a creature, it must make a
successful Constitution saving throw or take 1d6 necrotic
damage at the start of each of its turns for 1 minute, its
flesh rotting around the wound. An affected creature can
repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns,
ending the effect on a success. The rotting effect also ends
if the affected creature receives magical healing.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell
slot of 2nd level or higher, the extra damage dealt by the
weapon’s hit increases by 1d6 for each slot level above 1st.
Subsequent necrotic damage doesn’t increase.
Gods with the Apocalypse domain in their portfolios
promote fear, judgment, punishment, and the end of all
things.
Priesthoods of such gods consider themselves the
messengers of that doom, and they work to spread word
of the coming end. Their gloomy, often frightening
message makes them unwelcome in many, but not all,
civilized places.
1st bane, grim siphon
3rd blindness/deafness, enthrall
5th bestow curse, fear
7th blight, confusion
9th contact other plane, souleater
When you choose this domain at 1st level, you learn the
vicious mockery cantrip. You also gain proficiency in either
Arcana or Survival (your choice).
CHANNEL DIVINITY: DAMNATION
Starting at 2nd level, you can use your Channel Divinity
to lash out at those who defy your deity’s messenger. As an
action, you present your holy symbol while pronouncing
doom to unbelievers. Each hostile creature that can see
you and is within 30 feet of you takes necrotic damage
equal to 3d6 + your cleric level, or half as much damage
with a successful Wisdom saving throw. A creature that has
total cover from you is not affected.
CHANNEL DIVINITY: WEIGHT OF GUILT
At 6th level, you can use your Channel Divinity to
manipulate a creature’s thoughts. You can then use
your access to the creature’s mind as an advantage when
interrogating it.
As an action, choose one creature that you can see within
60 feet of you. That creature must make a Wisdom saving
throw. On a failed save, you automatically know for the
next 10 minutes whether anything the target says is true, a
lie, or in between. On a successful save, the target cannot
be affected by this spell until you finish a long rest.
At 8th level, you gain the ability to infuse your weapon
strikes with necrotic energy. Once on each of your turns,
you can cause a weapon attack to deal an extra 1d8 necrotic
damage to the target on a hit. When you reach 14th level,
the extra damage increases to 2d8.
At 17th level, you gain resistance to acid, fire, and poison
damage.
The oath of the annihilator is as ancient as the darkness
between stars.
These paladins—sometimes called antipaladins, dark
paladins, or death knights—represent the antithesis of the
ideal paladin. Paladins who take this oath see themselves
as divine instruments of reckoning and foretellers of
armageddon. Despite their extreme viewpoint and often
brutal behavior, they still conduct themselves honorably
and expect to be treated with respect.
Many who swear this oath are devoted to gods of
destruction, chaos, and war.
The principles of the oath of the annihilator are simple.
They emphasize the value of strength above all else.
• Extinguish the Weak. An enemy who lacks the strength
to prevail in combat must be ushered into the embrace
of death.
• Maintain the Balance. For life to flourish, there must
be destruction. The strong endure, the weak succumb.
• Revel in Destruction. All things end, especially life.
Everyone has only a limited time to experience mortal
delights, the greatest of which are combat and strife.
• Embrace the End. Death should not be feared. Since it
comes for everyone, best be prepared for it at any time.
When you take this oath at 3rd level, you gain the following
two Channel Divinity options.
Vow of Ruin. As a bonus action, you can utter a vow
of ruination using your Channel Divinity. For 1 minute
thereafter, successful attacks you make against objects
and constructs are treated as critical hits. If your weapon
isn’t a magic weapon, it becomes a magic weapon with a +1
bonus to attack rolls and damage rolls for the duration of
this effect.
Wither Foe. As an action, you can present your holy
symbol and speak a prayer of damnation, using your
Channel Divinity. Choose one creature within 60 feet of
you that you can see. That creature must make a Charisma
saving throw. On a failed save, it takes necrotic damage
equal to your Charisma modifier + your paladin level, and
it has disadvantage on saving throws for 1 minute or until
it’s reduced to 0 hit points.
You gain oath spells at the paladin levels listed.
3rd bane, proselytize
5th augury, shatter
9th bestow curse, phantom steed
13th blight, caustic waste
17th contagion, hallow
Starting at 7th level, you and allied creatures within 10
feet of you are immune to the frightened condition.
When you or an allied creature within 10 feet of you takes
damage, the damage is reduced by an amount equal to
your Charisma modifier (minimum of 1). At 18th level, the
range of this effect increases to 30 feet.
Starting at 15th level, your smites are powerful enough to
bring your foes to their knees. When you use your Divine
Smite against a creature that is Large or smaller, the
creature must make a successful Strength saving throw or
be knocked prone.
At 20th level, you can use an action to assume the form of
a harbinger of the apocalypse. Your appearance alters in
some frightening way of your choosing. For example, your
skin could take on the texture of broken stone and magma,
your hair could become flames, or you could sprout
demonic horns and a tail. For 1 minute thereafter, you gain
the following benefits:
• When you reduce a creature to 0 hit points, you heal 20
hit points.
• Your attacks and spells ignore a target’s resistance to
damage.
• You add your Charisma modifier (minimum of 1) to
your saving throws.
Once you use this feature, you can’t use it again until you
finish a long rest.
The magic you seek is as powerful as it is destructive.
Any fool can learn to hurl a fireball, but only a master of the
apocalypse can open a black hole. Some doomsayers use
their terrible power to amass a conquering army; others
seek to become a force of darkness and to reshape the
world according to their own vision.
Beginning when you select this specialty at 2nd level, the
gold and time you must spend to copy an apocalypse spell
into your spellbook is halved.
At 2nd level, you gain the ability to instill a sense of
impending doom in creatures who witness your power.
When you kill a creature with a spell that isn’t a cantrip,
you can use a bonus action to select one or more creatures
within 30 feet of the creature you just killed. Each of those
creatures must make a successful Wisdom saving throw
or become frightened of you for 1 minute. A frightened
creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of
its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success.
Once you use this feature, you can’t use it again until you
finish a long rest.
Starting at 6th level, whenever you score a critical hit with a
spell attack, choose one of the following two effects:
• Every creature affected by the spell must make a
successful Wisdom saving throw or become frightened
of you until the end of its next turn.
• Every creature affected by the spell must make a
successful Constitution saving throw or become
poisoned until the end of its next turn.
Starting at 10th level, you have advantage when making
spell attack rolls against creatures that are frightened or
poisoned.
Beginning at 14th level, your spell attacks score critical hits
when the attack roll is a natural 19 or 20.
Blood MagicBlood is life, and blood magic is closely tied to the dark
gods, blood sacrifices, and malevolent casters. Typically,
this style of magic is found among vengeful druids, dark
magical societies, cultists of forbidden gods, and lone
arcane practitioners with a wanton disregard for others.
Blood Magic Spell Lists
As might be expected, sorcerers and wizards have the
largest repertoires of blood spells. At the other end of the
spectrum are druids and rangers, who have only a small
amount of such magic.
Blood scarab (necromancy)
Bloody smite (necromancy)
Stanch (transmutation)
Blood lure (enchantment)
Vital mark (transmutation)
Blood and steel (transmutation)
Blood puppet (transmutation)
Cruor of visions (divination)
Exsanguinate (necromancy)
Exsanguinating cloud (necromancy)
Sanguine horror (conjuration)
Bloody smite (necromancy)
Stanch (transmutation)
Caustic blood (transmutation)
Bloody smite (necromancy)
Stanch (transmutation)
Caustic blood (transmutation)
Blood spoor (divination)
CANTRIPS (0 LEVEL)
Blood tide (necromancy)
Bloody hands (necromancy)
Stanch (transmutation)
Weapon of blood (transmutation)
Blood lure (enchantment)
Bloodshot (conjuration)
Caustic blood (transmutation)
Blood armor (necromancy)
Vital mark (transmutation)
Blood puppet (transmutation)
Boiling blood (necromancy)
Cruor of visions (divination)
Exsanguinating cloud (necromancy)
Sanguine horror (conjuration)
Blood scarab (necromancy)
Bloody hands (necromancy)
Stanch (transmutation)
Bloodshot (conjuration)
Caustic blood (transmutation)
Blood armor (necromancy)

Boiling blood (necromancy)
Cruor of visions (divination)
Exsanguinate (necromancy)
Sanguine horror (conjuration)
CANTRIPS (0 LEVEL)
Blood tide (necromancy)
Bloody hands (necromancy)
Bloody smite (necromancy)
Stanch (transmutation)
Weapon of blood (transmutation)
Blood lure (enchantment)
Bloodshot (conjuration)
Caustic blood (transmutation)
Blood armor (necromancy)
Vital mark (transmutation)
Blood and steel (transmutation)
Blood puppet (transmutation)
Boiling blood (necromancy)
Cruor of visions (divination)
Exsanguinate (necromancy)
Exsanguinating cloud (necromancy)
Sanguine horror (conjuration)

The following spells are presented in alphabetical order.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: BLOOD AND STEEL
Level: 4
School: Transmutation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Description:
When you cast this spell, you cut your hand and take 1d4
slashing damage that can’t be healed until you take a long
rest. You then touch a construct; it must make a successful
Constitution saving throw or be charmed by you for the
duration. If you or your allies are fighting the construct, it
has advantage on the saving throw. Even constructs that
are immune to charm effects can be affected by this spell.
While the construct is charmed, you have a telepathic
link with it as long as the two of you are on the same plane
of existence. You can use this telepathic link to issue
commands to the creature while you are conscious (no
action required), which it does its best to obey. You can
specify a simple and general course of action, such as,
“Attack the ghouls,” “Block the bridge,” or, “Fetch that
bucket.” If the construct completes the order and doesn’t
receive further direction from you, it defends itself.
You can use your action to take total and precise control
of the target. Until the end of your next turn, the construct
takes only the actions you specify and does nothing you
haven’t ordered it to do. During this time, you can also
cause the construct to use a reaction, but doing this
requires you to use your own reaction as well.
Each time the construct takes damage, it makes a new
Constitution saving throw against the spell. If the saving
throw succeeds, the spell ends.
If the construct is already under your control when the
spell is cast, it gains an Intelligence of 10 (unless its own
Intelligence is higher, in which case it retains the higher
score) for 4 hours. The construct is capable of acting
independently, though it remains loyal to you for the
spell’s duration. You can also grant the target a bonus
equal to your Intelligence modifier on one skill in which
you have proficiency.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a
5th-level spell slot, the duration is concentration, up to
10 minutes. When you use a 6th-level spell slot, the
duration is concentration, up to 1 hour. When you
use a spell slot of 7th level or higher, the duration is
concentration, up to 8 hours.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: BLOOD ARMOR
Level: 3
School: Necromancy
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: Self
Components: V, S (you must have just struck a foe with a
Duration: 1 hour
Description:
melee weapon)
When you strike a foe with a melee weapon attack, you can
immediately cast blood armor as a bonus action. The foe you
struck must contain blood; if the target doesn’t bleed, the
spell ends without effect. The blood flowing from your foe
magically increases in volume and forms a suit of armor
around you, granting you an Armor Class of 18 + your
Dexterity modifier for the spell’s duration. This armor has
no Strength requirement, doesn’t hinder spellcasting, and
doesn’t incur disadvantage on Dexterity (Stealth) checks.
If the creature you struck was a celestial, blood armor also
grants you advantage on Charisma saving throws for the
duration of the spell.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: BLOOD LURE
Level: 2
School: Enchantment
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 10 feet
Components: V, S, M (a container or pool of blood)
Duration: 1 minute
Description:
You point at any location (a jar, a bowl, even a puddle)
within range that contains at least a pint of blood. Each
creature that feeds on blood and is within 60 feet of
that location must make a Charisma saving throw. (This
includes undead, such as vampires.) A creature that has
Keen Smell or any similar scent-boosting ability has
disadvantage on the saving throw, while undead have
advantage on the saving throw. On a failed save, the
creature is attracted to the blood and must move toward it
unless impeded.
Once an affected creature reaches the blood, it tries to
consume it, foregoing all other actions while the blood is
present. A successful attack against an affected creature
ends the effect, as does the consumption of the blood,
which requires an action by an affected creature.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: BLOOD PUPPET
Level: 4
School: Transmutation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 100 feet
Components: V, M (a drop of blood from the target)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Description:
With a sample of its blood, you are able to magically
control a creature’s actions, like a marionette on magical
strings. Choose a creature you can see within range
whose blood you hold. The target must succeed on a
Constitution saving throw, or you gain control over its
physical activity (as long as you interact with the blood
material component each round). As a bonus action on
your turn, you can direct the creature to perform various
activities. You can specify a simple and general course of
action, such as, “Attack that creature,” “Run over there,”
or, “Fetch that object.” If the creature completes the order
and doesn’t receive further direction from you, it defends
and preserves itself to the best of its ability. The target is
aware of being controlled. At the end of each of its turns,
the target can make another Constitution saving throw.
On a success, the spell ends.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: BLOOD SCARAB
Level: 1
School: Necromancy
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, M (a drop of the caster’s blood, and the
Duration: Instantaneous
Description:
exoskeleton of a scarab beetle)
Your blood is absorbed into the beetle’s exoskeleton
to form a beautiful, rubylike scarab that flies toward a
creature of your choice within range. The target must
make a successful Constitution saving throw or take 1d6
necrotic damage. You gain temporary hit points equal to
the necrotic damage dealt.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the number of scarabs
increases by one for each slot level above 1st. You can
direct the scarabs at the same target or at different targets.
Each target makes a single saving throw, regardless of the
number of scarabs targeting it.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: BLOOD SPOOR
Level: 4
School: Divination
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (a drop of the quarry’s blood)
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
Description:
By touching a drop of your quarry’s blood (spilled or
drawn within the past hour), you can follow the creature’s
trail unerringly across any surface or under water, no
matter how fast you are moving. If your quarry takes
flight, you can follow its trail along the ground—or
through the air, if you have the means to fly.
If your quarry moves magically (such as by way of a
dimension door or a teleport spell), you sense its trail as a
straight path leading from where the magical movement
started to where it ended. Such a route might lead through
lethal or impassable barriers. This spell even reveals the
route of a creature using pass without trace, but it fails to
locate a creature protected by nondetection or by other
effects that prevent scrying spells or cause divination spells
to fail. If your quarry moves to another plane, its trail ends
without trace, but blood spoor picks up the trail again if the
caster moves to the same plane as the quarry before the
spell’s duration expires.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: BLOOD TIDE
Level: cantrip
School: Necromancy
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 25 feet
Components: V
Duration: 4 rounds
Description:
When you cast this spell, a creature you designate within
range must succeed on a Constitution saving throw or
bleed from its nose, eyes, ears, and mouth. This bleeding
deals no damage but imposes a –2 penalty on the creature’s
Intelligence, Charisma, and Wisdom checks. Blood tide has
no effect on undead or constructs.
A bleeding creature might attract the attention of
creatures such as stirges, sharks, or giant mosquitoes,
depending on the circumstances.
A cure wounds spell stops the bleeding before the duration
of blood tide expires, as does a successful DC 10 Wisdom
(Medicine) check.
The spell’s duration increases to 2 minutes when you
reach 5th level, to 10 minutes when you reach 11th level,
and to 1 hour when you reach 17th level.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: BLOODSHOT
Level: 2
School: Conjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
Description:
You launch a jet of boiling blood from your eyes at a
creature within range. You take 1d6 necrotic damage and
make a ranged spell attack against the target. If the attack
hits, the target takes 2d10 fire damage plus 2d8 psychic
damage.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 3rd level or higher, the fire damage increases
by 1d10 for each slot level above 2nd.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: BLOODY HANDS
Level: 1
School: Necromancy
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Description:
You cause the hands (or other appropriate body parts,
such as claws or tentacles) of a creature within range to
bleed profusely. The target must succeed on a Constitution
saving throw or take 1 necrotic damage each round and
suffer disadvantage on all melee and ranged attack rolls
that require the use of its hands for the spell’s duration.
Casting any spell that has somatic or material
components while under the influence of this spell requires
a DC 10 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save,
the spell is not cast but it is not lost; the casting can be
attempted again in the next round.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: BLOODY SMITE
Level: 1
School: Necromancy
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: Self
Components: V
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Description:
The next time during the spell’s duration that you hit
a creature with a melee weapon attack, your weapon
pulses with a dull red light, and the attack deals an extra
1d6 necrotic damage to the target. Until the spell ends,
the target must make a Constitution saving throw at the
start of each of its turns. On a failed save, it takes 1d6
necrotic damage, it bleeds profusely from the mouth, and
it can’t speak intelligibly or cast spells that have a verbal
component. On a successful save, the spell ends. If the
target or an ally within 5 feet of it uses an action to tend the
wound and makes a successful Wisdom (Medicine) check
against your spell save DC, or if the target receives magical
healing, the spell ends.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: BOILING BLOOD
Level: 4
School: Necromancy
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (a vial of blood)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Description:
You cause the blood within a creature’s body to boil with
supernatural heat. Choose one creature that you can see
within range that isn’t a construct or an undead. The target
must make a Constitution saving throw. On a successful
save, it takes 2d6 fire damage and the spell ends. On a failed
save, the creature takes 4d6 fire damage and is blinded. At
the end of each of its turns, the target can make another
Constitution saving throw. On a success, the spell ends.
On a failure, the creature takes an additional 2d6 fire
damage and remains blinded.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell
slot of 5th level or higher, you can target one additional
creature for each slot level above 4th. The creatures must be
within 30 feet of each other when you target them.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: CAUSTIC BLOOD
Level: 2
School: Transmutation
Casting Time: 1 reaction, which you take when an
Range: Self (30-foot radius)
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
Description:
enemy’s attack deals piercing or slashing damage to you
Your blood becomes caustic when exposed to the air.
When you take piercing or slashing damage, you can use
your reaction to select up to three creatures within 30 feet
of you. Each target takes 1d10 acid damage unless it makes
a successful Dexterity saving throw.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 3rd level or higher, the number of targets
increases by one for each slot level above 2nd, to a
maximum of six targets.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: CRUOR OF VISIONS
Level: 5
School: Divination
Casting Time: 1 minute
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (a bone needle and a catch basin)
Duration: Concentration, up to 5 minutes
Description:
You prick your finger with a bone needle as you cast this
spell, taking 1 necrotic damage. This drop of blood must
be caught in a container, such as a platter or a bowl, where
it grows into a pool 1 foot in diameter. This pool acts as a
crystal ball for the purpose of scrying.
If you place a drop (or dried flakes) of another creature’s
blood in the container, the creature has disadvantage on
any Wisdom saving throw to resist scrying. Additionally,
you can treat the pool of blood as a crystal ball of telepathy.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 7th level or higher, the pool of blood acts as
either a crystal ball of mind reading or a crystal ball of true
seeing (your choice when the spell is cast).
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: EXSANGUINATE
Level: 5
School: Necromancy
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (a desiccated horse heart)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Description:
You cause the body of a creature within range to become
engorged with blood or ichor. The target must make a
Constitution saving throw. On a successful save, it takes
2d6 bludgeoning damage. On a failed save, it takes 4d6
bludgeoning damage each round, it is incapacitated, and it
cannot speak, as it vomits up torrents of blood or ichor. In
addition, its hit point maximum is reduced by an amount
equal to the damage taken. The target dies if this effect
reduces its hit point maximum to 0.
At the end of each of its turns, a creature can make a
Constitution saving throw, ending the effect on a success—
except for the reduction of its hit point maximum, which
lasts until the creature finishes a long rest.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell
slot of 6th level or higher, you can target one additional
creature for each slot level above 5th.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: EXSANGUINATING CLOUD
Level: 5
School: Necromancy
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 100 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 5 minutes
Description:
When you cast this spell, a rose-colored mist billows up in
a 20-foot radius, centered on a point you indicate within
range, making the area heavily obscured and draining
blood from living creatures in the cloud. The cloud spreads
around corners. It lasts for the duration or until strong
wind disperses it, ending the spell.
This cloud leaches the blood or similar fluid from
creatures in the area. It doesn’t affect undead or constructs.
Any creature in the cloud when it’s created or at the start of
your turn takes 6d6 necrotic damage and gains one level of
exhaustion; a successful Constitution saving throw halves
the damage and prevents the exhaustion.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: SANGUINE HORROR
Level: 5
School: Conjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 5 feet
Components: V, S, M (a miniature dagger)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
Description:
When you cast this spell, you prick yourself with the
material component, taking 1 piercing damage. The spell
fails if this damage is prevented or negated in any way.
From the drop of blood, you conjure a blood elemental
(Creature Codex, p. 138). The blood elemental is friendly to
you and your companions for the duration. It disappears
when it’s reduced to 0 hit points or when the spell ends.
Roll initiative for the elemental, which has its own turns.
It obeys verbal commands from you (no action required
by you). If you don’t issue any commands to the blood
elemental, it defends itself but otherwise takes no actions.
If your concentration is broken, the blood elemental
doesn’t disappear, but you lose control of it and it becomes
hostile to you and your companions. An uncontrolled
blood elemental cannot be dismissed by you, and it
disappears 1 hour after you summoned it.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: STANCH
Level: 1
School: Transmutation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S
Duration: 1 hour
Description:
The target’s blood coagulates rapidly, so that a dying target
stabilizes and any ongoing bleeding or wounding effect on
the target ends. The target can’t be the source of blood for
any spell or effect that requires even a drop of blood.
3rd-level transmutation (ritual) (blood)
Casting Time: 10 minutes
Range: Touch
Components: V, S
Duration: 24 hours
You mark an unattended magic item (including weapons
and armor) with a clearly visible stain of your blood. The
exact appearance of the bloodstain is up to you. The item’s
magical abilities don’t function for anyone else as long as
the bloodstain remains on it. For example, a +1 flaming
longsword with a vital mark functions as a nonmagical
longsword in the hands of anyone but the caster, but it still
functions as a +1 flaming longsword for the caster who placed
the bloodstain on it. A wand of magic missiles would be no
more than a stick in the hands of anyone but the caster.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 4th level or higher on the same item for 28
consecutive days, the effect becomes permanent until
dispelled.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: WEAPON OF BLOOD
Level: 1
School: Transmutation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (a pinch of iron shavings)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
Description:
When you cast this spell, you inflict 1d4 slashing damage
on yourself that can’t be healed until after the blade created
by this spell is destroyed or the spell ends. The trickling
blood transforms into a dagger of red metal that functions
as a +1 dagger.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell
slot of 3rd to 5th level, the self-inflicted wound deals 3d4
slashing damage and the spell produces a +2 dagger. When
you cast this spell using a spell slot of 6th to 8th level, the
self-inflicted wound deals 6d4 slashing damage and the
spell produces a +2 dagger of wounding. When you cast this
spell using a 9th-level spell slot, the self-inflicted wound
deals 9d4 slashing damage and the spell produces a +3
dagger of wounding.
Some sorcerers are preoccupied with blood, both their own
and that of others.
The serophage learns early in life that they can exercise
some control over their own blood, and they harness
that ability to awaken the magic that flows through their
veins. The dark possibilities of this form of magic become
apparent when a sorcerer discovers that they can control
the blood flowing in the veins of other creatures, too. Thus
is born the serophage, a sorcerer unlike all others.
At 1st level, someone who chooses this origin gains control
over his or her blood flow, directing it away from a recent
wound. When the serophage takes bludgeoning damage,
he or she rolls a d4 and subtracts the result from the
damage taken. When he or she reaches 6th level, the die
increases to a d6.
Starting at 6th level, instead of taking a move action, a
serophage can deal 1d4 slashing damage to him- or herself
and regain a number of sorcery points equal to the slashing
damage. Alternatively, the serophage can choose to increase
the save DC or the attack bonus of the next spell he or she
casts by +1 instead of regaining sorcery points. When the
serophage reaches 12th level, the die becomes a d8 and the
increase to his or her attack bonus or save DC becomes +2.
At 14th level, a serophage gains the ability to draw blood
from a creature with Intelligence 5 or higher that has been
killed within the last 30 minutes and form it into swirling
rings that surround the sorcerer. The number of rings is
equal to his or her Charisma modifier.
The rings absorb physical damage. When the serophage
is struck by a melee or ranged weapon attack, one ring
absorbs 1d10 damage from the attack, and then disappears
in a splash.
As an action, the serophage can cause one ring to form
into a magical spear of blood and launch itself at a target
he or she selects within 60 feet. The sorcerer makes a
ranged spell attack. On a hit, the target takes piercing
damage equal to 1d6 + the serophage’s Charisma modifier
and must succeed on a Constitution saving throw or be
stunned until the start of the serophage’s next turn. The
spear is considered a magic weapon. It evaporates after
it’s expended. Each ring remains until it either absorbs
damage or is expended as a weapon.
At 18th level, a serophage gains the ability to siphon a
steady stream of blood from a living creature at a distance.
As an action, he or she designates a creature within 40 feet;
that creature must make a Constitution saving throw. On
a failed save, the creature takes 2d6 necrotic damage as
blood oozes through its skin and flows through the air to
the serophage, who absorbs it through their own skin. For
every 2 points of damage dealt to the target, the serophage
chooses to regain either 1 hit point or 1 sorcery point. The
siphoning continues, dealing damage and restoring hit
points or sorcery points at the start of the serophage’s turn,
until he or she ends the effect (no action required), or until
the target makes a successful Constitution saving throw at
the end of its turn.
Blood can be a dark and forbidden source of magical
energy for those willing to makes the necessary sacrifices.
A blood mage powers their magic with the secrets they
learn from their own blood. Eventually, they learn to
manipulate the blood of others, too.
Beginning at 2nd level, the gold and time a blood mage
must spend to copy a blood magic spell into their spellbook
is halved.
A blood mage has proficiency in Medicine.
At 2nd level, a blood mage gains a greater awareness of
the blood flowing through their veins and of the heart that
pumps it, and some measure of control over both. When
the blood mage is subjected to a disease or poison effect
that allows a Constitution saving throw to take only half
damage, they instead take no damage on a successful save,
and only half damage on a failed one.
A blood mage of 6th level or higher can see a moment of the
past through the eyes of a creature by consuming its blood.
Upon ingesting a small amount of the blood of another
creature, the wizard becomes stunned. While stunned, he
or she experiences one of the creature’s memories through
its own eyes. (The memory may or may not be about the
incident that caused it to bleed.)
Once a blood mage has consumed a creature’s blood for
this purpose, the creature is immune to further uses of this
ability.
A blood mage of 10th level or higher can absorb a poison or
a disease from another creature, living or dead, and turn it
to his or her use. By exposing a fresh wound to a source of
disease or poison, the wizard can safely absorb it and store
it, dormant, in his or her bloodstream. The blood mage
can then inflict the disease or poison on another creature
by spitting a stream of blood at it. As an action, the wizard
makes a ranged spell attack. On a hit, the target is exposed
to the disease or poison and must proceed with any saving
throws required.
If the wizard does not pass the disease or poison along
to another living creature within three days, it becomes
active in the body, and the wizard must make the first
two saving throws required by the disease or poison with
disadvantage.
A blood mage of 14th level or higher can turn another
creature’s blood into sludge, hampering the creature, or
can thin it out, giving the creature extra mobility. As an
action, the wizard can cause a touched creature that fails a
Constitution saving throw to become affected as if by a slow
spell—or, alternatively, to gain the effect of a haste spell. The
duration of either effect is a number of rounds equal to the
blood mage’s Intelligence modifier. The target of the haste
effect can intentionally fail the saving throw.
The blood mage can use this ability once, regaining the
use of it upon finishing a long rest.
Fiendish MagicAny mortal in the world can be evil by choice, or can be
forced into performing evil acts. The same cannot be said
for certain denizens of other planes, particularly demons
and devils. These fiends are not only innately evil—no
choice about it for them, no forcing needed—but also the
very personification of evil.
Some spellcasters take up the practice of a certain
kind of magic that enables them to emulate or interact
with those fiends, or to protect themselves from being
annihlated by the evil creatures they revere. The largest
repertoire of fiendish magic belongs to evil wizards, but
like-minded clerics, sorcerers, and warlocks can also
traffic in these spells.
FIENDISH magic
spell lists
Mammon’s avarice (divination)
Protection from evil and good (abjuration)
Cloak of fiendish menace (transmutation)
Plaguebearer (abjuration)
Magic circle (abjuration)
Nest of infernal vipers (conjuration)
Spirit guardians (conjuration)
Wave of corruption (necromancy)
Banishment (abjuration)
Fiendish brand (necromancy)
Planar binding (abjuration)
Forbiddance (abjuration)
Planar ally (conjuration)
Plane shift (conjuration)
Cloak of fiendish menace (transmutation)
Darkness (evocation)
Suggestion (enchantment)
Chains of perdition (conjuration)
Banishment (abjuration)
Channel fiendish power (transmutation)
Dark lord’s mantle (enchantment)
Dominate person (enchantment)
Mass suggestion (enchantment)
Plane shift (conjuration)
Dominate monster (enchantment)
Hellish rebuke (evocation)
Mammon’s avarice (divination)
Protection from evil and good (abjuration)
Darkness (evocation)
Enthrall (enchantment)
Plaguebearer (abjuration)
Suggestion (enchantment)
Chains of perdition (conjuration)
Demon within (conjuration)
Magic circle (abjuration)
Banishment (abjuration)
Conjure fiends (conjuration)

Channel fiendish power (transmutation)
Conjure nightmare (conjuration)
Contact other plane (divination)
Dark lord’s mantle (enchantment)
Fiendish brand (necromancy)
Aura of wrath (enchantment)
Mass suggestion (enchantment)
Plane shift (conjuration)
Dominate monster (enchantment)
Imprisonment (abjuration)
Mammon’s avarice (divination)
Protection from evil and good (abjuration)
Cloak of fiendish menace (transmutation)
Darkness (evocation)
Plaguebearer (abjuration)
Suggestion (enchantment)
Chains of perdition (conjuration)
Demon within (conjuration)
Magic circle (abjuration)
Nest of infernal vipers (conjuration)
Wave of corruption (necromancy)
Banishment (abjuration)
Conjure fiends (conjuration)
Fire shield (evocation)
Tome curse (necromancy)
Channel fiendish power (transmutation)
Conjure nightmare (conjuration)
Contact other plane (divination)
Dark lord’s mantle (enchantment)
Dominate person (enchantment)
Fiendish brand (necromancy)
Planar binding (abjuration)
Aura of wrath (enchantment)
Mass suggestion (enchantment)
Plane shift (conjuration)
Dominate monster (enchantment)
Imprisonment (abjuration)

The following spells are presented in alphabetical order.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: AURA OF WRATH
Level: 6
School: Enchantment
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self (20-foot radius)
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Description:
You surround yourself with a psychic aura that drives
creatures within 20 feet of you into a violent frenzy. A
creature inside the aura or that enters the aura must
succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or be overcome with
rage. A creature overcome with rage must take its next
action to attack the nearest possible target —if more than
one target is available, choose randomly. The creature
uses a melee weapon if it has one; otherwise, it attacks
with any other offensive ability it possesses. If an affected
creature leaves the aura, the aura’s effect persists for 1
round afterward. A creature affected by the aura makes a
new saving throw at the start of each of its turns, ending
the effect on itself on a success. Once a creature makes a
successful save, that creature cannot be affected again by
the same aura.
If a creature affected by your aura hits you with an attack
that targets you, the creature takes 4d8 psychic damage.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 7th level or higher, creatures that leave the
aura remain under the effect of the spell for 1 additional
round for each slot level above 6th. Also, the damage an
affected creature takes from striking you increases by 2d8
for each slot level above 6th.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: CHAINS OF PERDITION
Level: 3
School: Conjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S, M (a few links of iron chain)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Description:
Lengths of iron chain appear near a creature you choose
within range, possibly ensnaring the target and causing
it physical and mental suffering. The targeted creature
must succeed on a Dexterity saving throw or be restrained
by the chains and take 2d8 bludgeoning damage and 2d8
psychic damage. The creature takes this damage on your
turn every round that it remains restrained by the chains.
On its turn, a restrained creature can make a Strength or
Dexterity check (its choice) against your spell save DC. On
a success, it frees itself.
The chains remain until the spell ends. If they are not
restraining a creature, you can use a bonus action to direct
the chains to target the same creature or another one,
moving the chains up to 20 feet (within the range of the
spell) if necessary to do so. If the chains move beyond
the maximum range, the spell ends. The chains can be
destroyed; treat them as an object with AC 18, 15 hit
points, resistance to piercing damage, and immunity to
poison damage and psychic damage.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 4th level or higher, the spell deals an extra 1d8
bludgeoning damage and 1d8 psychic damage for every
two slot levels above 3rd.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: CHANNEL FIENDISH POWER
Level: 5
School: Transmutation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (an amulet inscribed with a
Duration: 10 minutes
Description:
demonic or diabolic symbol)
You infuse yourself with dark power from the Lower
Planes, which grants you magical gifts for a short time.
While this spell is in effect, your body takes on minor
fiendish characteristics: scales, a reddish or greenish hue
to your skin, small horns protruding from your forehead,
or other such features. While the spell is in effect, you gain
two of the following abilities:
• Darkvision with a range of 120 feet, unimpeded by
magical darkness.
• Immunity to fire damage.
• Immunity to poison damage and the poisoned
condition.
• Advantage on saving throws against spells and other
magical effects.
• Resistance to one of the following damage types: cold,
fire, or lightning.
• Resistance to bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing
damage from weapons that aren’t silvered.
• Resistance to bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing
damage from nonmagical weapons.
• Claws that grant you a melee weapon attack that deals
1d8 slashing damage.
• Wings that grant you a flying speed of 60 feet.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 6th level or higher, you can choose one
additional benefit to be granted by the spell for each slot
level above 5th.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: CLOAK OF FIENDISH MENACE
Level: 2
School: Transmutation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Personal
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Description:
You wrap yourself in an aura of fiendish power,
intimidating those that face you. When a creature is within
5 feet of you, it must make a Wisdom saving throw. On a
failed save, the creature becomes frightened. A frightened
creature can make another saving throw at the start of
each of its turns. On a successful saving throw, the creature
is no longer frightened and cannot again be affected by this
particular casting of the spell.
If you deal damage to a creature that is frightened by
this spell, it must take the Dash action and move away
from you by the safest available route on its next turn,
unless there is nowhere to move. The creature is unable to
move toward you again while the spell is in effect, unless it
makes a successful saving throw against the spell.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: CONJURE FIENDS
Level: 4
School: Conjuration
Casting Time: 1 minute
Range: 90 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
Description:
You summon fiends that appear in unoccupied spaces that
you can see within range. You choose one of the following
options for what appears:
• One fiend of challenge rating 2 or lower
• Two fiends of challenge rating 1 or lower
• Four fiends of challenge rating 1/2 or lower
• Eight fiends of challenge rating 1/4 or lower
A fiend summoned by this spell disappears when it drops
to 0 hit points or when the spell ends.
The summoned creatures are friendly to you and your
companions. Roll initiative for the summoned creatures
as a group, which has its own turns. They obey any verbal
commands that you issue to them (no action required
by you). If you don’t issue any commands to them, they
defend themselves from hostile creatures, but otherwise
take no actions.
The GM has the creatures’ statistics.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
certain higher-level spell slots, you choose one of the
summoning options above, and more creatures appear:
twice as many with a 6th-level spell slot and three times as
many with an 8th-level spell slot.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: CONJURE NIGHTMARE
Level: 5
School: Conjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S, M (brimstone and a torch)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
Description:
You call forth a nightmare to serve you. The creature
appears in an unoccupied space you choose within range.
The nightmare will serve you as a mount, in combat and
out. The nightmare is friendly to you and your companions
for the duration, and follows any commands you issue to
it. If your concentration is broken, the nightmare is no
longer bound by the spell. It might leave immediately,
especially if it has been wounded or threatened, but it is
just as likely to attack you or an ally, or otherwise gain
retribution for being summoned and bound to your
service. If you provide the nightmare with a sacrifice it
can devour when it is first summoned, it will be appeased
enough to simply return home once the spell ends,
without causing harm to you or your companions.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 6th level or higher, the duration increases by 1
hour for each slot level above 5th.
DARK LORD’S MANTLE
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: DARK LORD’S MANTLE
Level: 5
School: Enchantment
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self (30-foot radius)
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
Description:
You infuse yourself with fiendish power, which inspires
your allies and intimidates your foes. While the spell lasts,
you exude confidence. You gain advantage on saving
throws against all enchantment spells and effects. In
addition, each ally within 30 feet of you can roll a d4 once
per round and add the result to an attack roll as a bonus
action, or to a saving throw as a reaction.
An enemy that starts its turn within 30 feet of you, or
that moves within 30 feet of you on its turn, must succeed
on a Wisdom saving throw or become frightened of you.
If a creature moves out of the spell’s radius, it remains
frightened until the start of its next turn, and then the spell
ends for that creature. While frightened in this way, the
creature repeats the saving throw at the end of each of its
turns. On a success, the creature is no longer frightened,
and it cannot be affected again by your casting of this spell
for 24 hours.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: DEMON WITHIN
Level: 3
School: Conjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (a vial of blood from a humanoid
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Description:
killed within the previous 24 hours)
One humanoid of your choice within range becomes a
gateway for a demon to enter the plane of existence you
are on. You choose the demon’s type from among those
of challenge rating of 4 or lower. The target must make a
Wisdom saving throw. On a success, the gateway fails to
open, and the spell has no effect. On a failed save, the target
takes 4d6 force damage from the demon’s attempt to claw
its way through the gate. For the spell’s duration, you can
use a bonus action to further agitate the demon, dealing an
additional 2d6 force damage to the target each time.
If the target drops to 0 hit points while affected by this
spell, the demon tears through the body and appears in
the same space as its now incapacitated or dead victim.
You do not control this demon; it is free to either attack or
leave the area as it chooses. The demon disappears after 24
hours or when it drops to 0 hit points.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: FIENDISH BRAND
Level: 5
School: Necromancy
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (a branding iron)
Duration: 7 days
Description:
You infuse a branding iron (typically one bearing the mark
of a demon lord or a lord of Hell) with the bone-chilling
cold of the Lower Planes and a promise of damnation. To
mark a creature with the brand, you make a melee spell
attack. On a hit, you deal 2d8 cold damage to the target
and cause it to become branded. The damage can be healed
normally, but the brand remains until a remove curse spell
is cast on the target, the duration expires, or you use an
action to remove the brand. You can remove the brand
from any distance, as long as the branded creature is on
the same plane of existence as you.
While the creature wears the brand, it has disadvantage
on any saving throws it makes against spells you cast on it.
If you try to locate the creature with a scrying spell, it takes
the –10 penalty to its saving throw as if you possessed a
lock of its hair or other body part.
MAMMON’S AVARICE
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: MAMMON’S AVARICE
Level: 1
School: Divination
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self (30-foot radius)
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
Description:
By casting this spell, you tap into the power of greed that
is Mammon’s sphere of influence, which manifests as a
heightened olfactory sense. You can pinpoint, by smell,
the location of any precious metals or gemstones within
30 feet of you. If you find anything, you can use an action
to determine the exact types and amounts of any such
materials. If materials of this sort are completely enclosed
by, or separated from you by, more than 6 feet of earth or
wood, 2 feet of stone, or 2 inches of common metal, you
cannot detect them even if they are in range.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: NEST OF INFERNAL VIPERS
Level: 3
School: Conjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
Description:
You summon evil spirits that take the form of a swarm of
poisonous snakes and appear in an unoccupied space you
can see within range. The swarm of snakes is considered a
fiend as well as a beast. It has resistance to fire damage, and
lasts until it drops to 0 hit points or the spell ends.
The summoned swarm is friendly to you and your
companions. Roll initiative for the swarm, which takes
its own turns. It obeys any verbal commands you issue
to it (no action required by you). If you don’t issue any
commands to the swarm, it moves to attack the nearest
creature that is not your ally.
The GM has the creature’s statistics.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
certain higher-level spell slots, you can summon additional
swarms. You summon two swarms with a 5th-level spell
slot, three swarms with a 7th-level spell slot, or four
swarms with a 9th-level spell slot.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: PLAGUEBEARER
Level: 2
School: Abjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S
Duration: 48 hours
Description:
The creature you touch when casting this spell becomes
immune to disease for the duration. The creature can still
contract and carry diseases; it simply does not suffer any
effects of a disease. When exposed to a disease, the creature
must make the saving throw required. If the saving throw
fails, the creature becomes a carrier of the disease, and
might expose others to it per the rules for the particular
affliction. The creature under the effect of the spell is aware
when it becomes infected. If the creature recovers from or
is cured of all diseases it suffers while this spell is in effect, it
continues to benefit from the spell until the spell ends.
When the duration expires, the target becomes
susceptible to the effect of any disease it is still carrying, as
if it had just now contracted it.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell
slot of 3rd level or higher, the duration increases by 24
hours for each slot level above 2nd.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: TOME CURSE
Level: 4
School: Necromancy
Casting Time: 10 minutes
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (an ounce of blood, and powdered
Duration: Until dispelled or triggered
Description:
onyx worth at least 50 gp, both of which the spell
consumes)
You protect a book by writing a curse in it with ink made
from the material components of this spell. The writing
is typically a couplet or a quatrain that warns of the
consequences of disturbing your property. The curse is
triggered by an action or actions that you specify (which
typically involves someone reading the book without
permission, trying to damage the book, or trying to steal
it). When the curse is triggered, the creature that did so
must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or suffer its
effect. You can choose one of the effects described in the
bestow curse spell, or you can affect the target in one of the
following ways:
• While the target is cursed, it is blinded.
• Beasts are unusually hostile to the target while it is
cursed; they gain advantage on attack rolls against the
target.
• While cursed, the target is an attractive mark to
pickpockets and other thieves, and such individuals
will try to steal the target’s valuables when the
opportunity presents itself. (Even if in the target’s
possession, the cursed book does not count as one of
the target’s valuables.)
• A cursed target that either receives magical healing
or rolls Hit Dice to recover hit points after a long rest
must roll twice and use the lower result.
A remove curse spell ends this effect. You can also stipulate
other actions taken by the target that would nullify the
curse (returning the book after it is stolen, for example).
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: WAVE OF CORRUPTION
Level: 3
School: Necromancy
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (a scrap of rotten meat or plant
Duration: Instantaneous
Description:
matter)
When you cast this spell, necromantic energy spreads
out in a 30-foot radius around you, corrupting what it
comes into contact with. Each unattended, nonmagical
object within range takes 3d8 necrotic damage. All food
and drink in the area, other than what is being carried, is
fouled and made unpalatable. Magic consumables, such
as potions, have a 50 percent chance of being ruined,
but any such item in the possession of a creature gets a
Constitution saving throw using the owner’s save bonus
to avoid this outcome.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 5th level or higher, the necrotic damage
increases by 1d8 for every two slot levels above 3rd.
Some individuals are willing to do anything in exchange
for power. They delve into forbidden knowledge to
expand their command of magic—trafficking with fiends
and endangering their immortal soul in exchange for
arcane might.
Beings of the Lower Planes dangle promises of power
as bait, hoping to lure careless folk into their clutches.
Some of those who take the bait have a keen intellect,
enabling them to use careful planning that circumvents
this damnation—or at least delays it. In this way, power-
hungry mages strike bargains and increase their magical
might with the knowledge the fiends offer. A master of
fiends, as these individuals are called, is either a diabolist
(one who deals with devils) or a demonologist (one who
traffics with demons). Most common folk care little about
the distinction, seeing both simply as servants of evil, but
the differences between the two are significant. Diabolists
are masters of language and context, knowing that the
contracts proffered by devils are complex and meant to
mislead, and must be read carefully and fully understood
so as to avoid any trickery. Demons have little use for
subtlety; they understand and respect only one thing—
power. A demonologist must have the magical power to
compel such fiends to do their bidding, or they will surely
be rent asunder and have their soul carried screaming back
to the Abyss by the demon. Either path takes a person
willing to risk their immortal soul in the pursuit of power,
and few dare to do so.
Beginning at 2nd level, you gain a bonus spell you can copy
to your spellbook at half the cost. You gain a new spell at
each level indicated on the following list if you have not
already learned the spell. You acquire knowledge of these
spells through your trafficking with fiends.
When you attain the appropriate wizard level, add the
indicated spell to your spellbook: 2nd level, hellish rebuke;
4th level, enthrall; 6th level, nest of infernal vipers; 8th level,
conjure fiends; 10th level, channel fiendish power; 12th level,
aura of wrath; 14th level, plane shift; 16th level, dominate
monster; and 18th level, imprisonment.
At 2nd level, you develop a dark aura of either allure or
menace. You gain proficiency in Deception, Intimidation,
or Persuasion. You can bring this talent to the fore to gain
advantage on a single check using the chosen skill. Once
you use this feature, you can’t use it again until you finish a
short or long rest.
Due to your dealings with fiends, your soul is damned, and
after your death it is collected by the fiends with whom
you bargained. Such creatures do not give up their prizes
willingly. Starting when you reach 2nd level, a caster using
a spell to return you to life must make a DC 12 Wisdom
saving throw. The DC of this save increases by 1 for every
five levels you gain hereafter, to a maximum of DC 15 at
17th level. On a successful save, your soul is retrieved and
the spell works normally. On a failed save, the spell ends
and you remain dead. (The GM can opt to allow either you
or the caster trying to revive you to strike a bargain that
allows you to be raised. The details of this deal are left up to
the GM, but typically such bargaining involves extremely
valuable items, magic, and—especially—souls
Tradition states that the devil awaits at the crossroads,
looking to bargain with those who seek to sell their souls
for glory. When you reach 6th level, you can achieve contact
with the lower realms in less dramatic circumstances. For
you, any significant liminal space—the threshold between
one space and another, such as the edge of a forest, the
entrance to a cave, or the doorway leading from a church to
its graveyard —will do. In such a place, you can perform a
ritual that summons a dark spirit from beyond, a shadowy
form that will offer you power for power.
When you do so, you can expend a number of spell slots
(equal to your wizard level or lower) in exchange for a pool
of an equal number of dice that you can use in one of two
ways. You can spend one or more dice as an action on your
turn to heal yourself, regaining 1d8 hit points for every die
you spend. Or you can spend one or more dice to boost
the damage of a spell you cast. Each die you spend adds an
additional die of damage to a spell you cast, of the same
size used in the spell (d6s for fireball, for example).
Once you use this feature, you cannot use it again until
you finish a long rest. Any unused dice in the pool are lost
when you rest, and you regain your normal number of
spell slots after the rest.
When you reach 10th level, you have learned to enhance
your magic to provide you with greater benefit against
extraplanar threats. You are protected not only against
attack or betrayal by fiends, but by celestials that would see
you judged for your connection with darkness. You have
advantage on any saving throws against spells and abilities
of celestials or fiends that would cause you to become
charmed, frightened, paralyzed, restrained, stunned, or
possessed by such a creature.
Additionally, if you have the dispel evil and good spell
prepared and a celestial or a fiend attacks you, you can cast
that spell as a reaction. Once you do so, you can’t use this
additional benefit again until you finish a long rest.
Starting at 14th level, when you cast a magic circle spell that
affects fiends, such creatures have disadvantage on any
Charisma saving throws made in an attempt to enter or
leave the cylinder by teleportation or interplanar travel. In
addition, any fiend you summon with a conjuration spell
gains 13 temporary hit points.
Void MagicVoid magic comprises a dangerous offshoot of wizardry
that exists in the shadows of the more well-known
practices. This form of magic is anathema to existence
itself, making it difficult to master and dangerous even
to study. Dabblers rarely produce effects more profound
than minor injury, property damage, and psychological
scars to themselves and those around them. More serious
investigations into Void magic can spell disaster. Only alien
creatures whose psychology and physiology defy human
understanding seem capable of commanding Void magic
with relative ease; even beings as anomalous as aboleths
respect and fear the power of Void magic.
A Void spell can never be added to a wizard’s spellbook as
one of the two free spells obtained for gaining a level. To
learn a Void magic spell, a wizard must find an NPC who is
willing to impart the knowledge, or else discover the spell
written on a scroll, in a captured spellbook, or carved on a
temple wall, or find it in some other form of recorded lore.
Alternatively, if the GM allows it, a character who sees and
hears a Void magic spell being cast can add it to his or her
spellbook, using the same rules as for transcribing a spell
from a scroll.
Despite the unique origin of Void magic, it still functions
similarly to other arcane magic on a fundamental level.
Void magic follows all the normal rules for spellcasting and
is susceptible to dispelling, counterspelling, and antimagic
as normal.
Void Speech. Every Void spell has a verbal
component—an utterance in the dark syllables of Void
Speech—and can’t, under any circumstances, be cast by
someone who cannot speak it. The written form of Void
Speech is used to create Void glyphs, which are involved in
the casting of some Void spells.
Void magic as a practice and form is entirely the province
of wizards. Warlocks, bards, and other casters seem unable
to master the complex language and arcana associated
with it, which demands intense focus and study.
CANTRIPS (0 LEVEL)
Crushing curse (enchantment)
Word of misfortune (enchantment)
Protection from the Void (abjuration)
Destructive resonance (enchantment)
Maddening whispers (enchantment)
Void strike (evocation)
Nether weapon (enchantment)
Conjure minor voidborn (conjuration)
Living shadows (enchantment)
Life drain (evocation)
Conjure voidborn (conjuration)
Icy grasp of the Void (evocation)
Glimpse of the Void (enchantment)
Void rift (evocation)

The spells in this section are presented in alphabetical
order. All Void spells have a verbal component, which must
be uttered in Void Speech.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: CONJURE MINOR VOIDBORN
Level: 5
School: Conjuration
Casting Time: 1 minute
Range: 90 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
Description:
You summon fiends or aberrations that appear in
unoccupied spaces you can see within range. You choose
one of the following options:
• One creature of challenge rating 2 or lower
• Two creatures of challenge rating 1 or lower
• Four creatures of challenge rating 1/2 or lower
• Eight creatures of challenge rating 1/4 or lower
Summoned creatures disappear when they drop to 0 hit
points or when the spell ends.
The summoned creatures do not directly attack you
or your companions. Roll initiative for the summoned
creatures as a group; they take their own turns on their
initiative result. They attack your enemies and try to stay
within 90 feet of you, but they control their own actions.
The summoned creatures despise being bound, so they
might harm or impede you and your companions with
secondary effects (but not direct attacks) if the opportunity
arises. At the beginning of the creatures’ turn, you can use
your reaction to verbally command them. They obey your
commands on that turn, and you take 1d6 psychic damage
at the end of the turn.
If your concentration is broken, the spell ends but the
creatures don’t disappear. Instead, you can no longer
command them, and they become hostile to you and your
companions. They will attack you and your allies if they
believe they have a chance to win the fight or to inflict
meaningful harm, but they won’t fight if they fear it would
mean their own death. You can’t dismiss the creatures, but
they disappear 1 hour after being summoned.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a 7th-
or 9th-level spell slot, you choose one of the summoning
options above, and more creatures appear—twice as many
with a 7th-level spell slot and three times as many with a
9th-level spell slot.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: CONJURE VOIDBORN
Level: 7
School: Conjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 90 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
Description:
You summon a fiend or aberration of challenge rating 6 or
lower, which appears in an unoccupied space that you can
see within range. The creature disappears when it drops to
0 hit points or when the spell ends.
Roll initiative for the creature, which takes its own turns.
It attacks the nearest creature on its turn. At the start of
the fiend’s turn, you can use your reaction to command the
creature by speaking in Void Speech. It obeys your verbal
command, and you take 2d6 psychic damage at the end of
the creature’s turn.
If your concentration is broken, the spell ends but the
creature doesn’t disappear. Instead, you can no longer
issue commands to the fiend, and it becomes hostile to
you and your companions. It will attack you and your allies
if it believes it has a chance to win the fight or to inflict
meaningful harm, but it won’t fight if it fears doing so
would mean its own death. You can’t dismiss the creature,
but it disappears 1 hour after you summoned it.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 8th level or higher, the challenge rating
increases by 1 for each slot level above 7th.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: CRUSHING CURSE
Level: cantrip
School: Enchantment
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
Description:
You speak a word of Void Speech. Choose a creature you
can see within range. If the target can hear you, it must
succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or take 1d6 psychic
damage and be deafened for 1 minute, except that it can
still hear Void Speech. A creature deafened in this way
can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns,
ending the effect on a success.
This spell’s damage increases by 1d6 when you reach 5th
level (2d6), 11th level (3d6), and 17th level (4d6).
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: DESTRUCTIVE RESONANCE
Level: 2
School: Enchantment
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self (15-foot cone)
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
Description:
You shout a scathing string of Void Speech that assaults
the minds of those before you. Each creature in a 15-foot
cone that can hear you takes 4d6 psychic damage, or half
that damage with a successful Wisdom saving throw. A
creature damaged by this spell can’t take reactions until
the start of its next turn.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 3rd level or higher, the damage increases by
1d6 for each slot level above 2nd.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: GLIMPSE OF THE VOID
Level: 8
School: Enchantment
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V, S, M (a scrap of parchment with Void
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Description:
glyph scrawlings)
Muttering Void Speech, you force images of terror and
nonexistence upon your foes. Each creature in a 30-foot
cube centered on a point within range must make an
Intelligence saving throw. On a failed save, the creature
goes insane for the duration. While insane, a creature
takes no actions other than to shriek, wail, gibber, and
babble unintelligibly. The GM controls the creature’s
movement, which is erratic.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: ICY GRASP OF THE VOID
Level: 7
School: Evocation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Description:
You summon the cold, inky darkness of the Void into
being around a creature that you can see. The target takes
10d10 cold damage and is restrained for the duration; a
successful Constitution saving throw halves the damage
and negates the restrained condition. A restrained
creature gains one level of exhaustion at the start of each
of its turns. Creatures immune to cold and that do not
breathe do not gain exhaustion. A creature restrained in
this way can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of
its turns, ending the spell on a success.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: LIFE DRAIN
Level: 6
School: Evocation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 90 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
Description:
With a snarled word of Void Speech, you create a swirling
vortex of purple energy. Choose a point you can see within
range. Creatures within 15 feet of the point take 10d6
necrotic damage, or half that damage with a successful
Constitution saving throw. For each creature damaged by
the spell, you can choose one other creature within range,
including yourself, that is not a construct or undead.
The secondary targets regain hit points equal to half the
necrotic damage you dealt.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 7th level or higher, the vortex’s damage
increases by 1d6 for each slot level above 6th.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: LIVING SHADOWS
Level: 5
School: Enchantment
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: 1 minute
Description:
You whisper sibilant words of Void Speech that cause
shadows to writhe with unholy life. Choose a point you
can see within range. Writhing shadows spread out in a
15-foot-radius sphere centered on that point, grasping
at creatures in the area. A creature that starts its turn in
the area or that enters the area for the first time on its
turn must make a successful Strength saving throw or
be restrained by the shadows. A creature that starts its
turn restrained by the shadows must make a successful
Constitution saving throw or gain one level of exhaustion.
A restrained creature can use its action to make a
Strength or Dexterity check (its choice) against your spell
save DC. On a success, it frees itself.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: MADDENING WHISPERS
Level: 2
School: Enchantment
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: 1 minute
Description:
You whisper a string of Void Speech toward a target
within range that can hear you. The target must succeed
on a Charisma saving throw or be incapacitated. While
incapacitated by this spell, the target’s speed is 0, and
it can’t benefit from increases to its speed. To maintain
the effect for the duration, you must use your action on
subsequent turns to continue whispering; otherwise, the
spell ends. The spell also ends if the target takes damage.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: NETHER WEAPON
Level: 4
School: Enchantment
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (ink, chalk, or some other
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
Description:
writing medium)
You whisper in Void Speech and touch a weapon. Until the
spell ends, the weapon turns black, becomes magical if it
wasn’t before, and deals 2d6 necrotic damage (in addition
to its normal damage) on a successful hit. A creature that
takes necrotic damage from the enchanted weapon can’t
regain hit points until the start of your next turn.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 5th level or higher, the damage increases by
1d6 for each slot level above 4th.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: PROTECTION FROM THE VOID
Level: 1
School: Abjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (a small bar of silver worth 15 sp,
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
Description:
which the spell consumes)
Until the spell ends, one willing creature you touch
has resistance to necrotic and psychic damage, and has
advantage on saving throws against Void spells.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: VOID RIFT
Level: 9
School: Evocation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 300 feet
Components: V, S, M (a black opal worth 500 gp, carved
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Description:
with a Void glyph)
You speak a hideous string of Void Speech that leaves your
mouth bloodied, causing a rift into nothingness to tear
open. The rift takes the form of a 10-foot-radius sphere,
and it forms around a point you can see within range. The
area within 40 feet of the sphere’s outer edge becomes
difficult terrain as the Void tries to draw everything into
itself. A creature that starts its turn within 40 feet of the
sphere or that enters that area for the first time on its turn
must succeed on a Strength saving throw or be pulled 15
feet toward the rift. A creature that starts its turn in the
rift or that comes into contact with it for the first time on
its turn takes 8d10 necrotic damage. Creatures inside the
rift are blinded and deafened. Unattended objects within
40 feet of the rift are drawn 15 feet toward it at the start of
your turn, and they take damage as creatures if they come
into contact with it.
While concentrating on the spell, you take 2d6 necrotic
damage at the end of each of your turns.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: VOID STRIKE
Level: 3
School: Evocation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 90 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Description:
With a short phrase of Void Speech, you gather writhing
darkness around your hand. When you cast the spell,
and as an action on subsequent turns while you maintain
concentration, you can unleash a bolt of darkness at a
creature within range. Make a ranged spell attack. If the
target is in dim light or darkness, you have advantage on
the roll. On a hit, the target takes 5d8 necrotic damage and
is frightened of you until the start of your next turn.
At Higher Levels. When you cast the spell using a spell
slot of 4th level or higher, the damage increases by 1d8 for
each slot level above 3rd.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: WORD OF MISFORTUNE
Level: cantrip
School: Enchantment
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Description:
You hiss a word of Void Speech. Choose one creature you
can see within range. The next time the target makes a
saving throw during the spell’s duration, it must roll a d4
and subtract the result from the total of the saving throw.
The spell then ends.
The Void exists outside the realm of sanity and form.
Creatures spawned by unknown powers and processes
exist there, constantly seeking entry into the living,
physical world. More than that, the Void itself seems
almost alive, or at least under some constant pressure to
spread and expand—to consume. Creatures who taste
its power expose themselves to its touch, and that touch
is corruptive. It bears a taint that seeps into physical,
spiritual, and mental being.
Void magic is powerful and often destructive, its spells
reinforced with the blasphemous intonations of Void
Speech, and it is the most common way for mortals,
particularly adventurers, to have their first brush with the
Void’s taint. Lore and knowledge gathered from tainted
sources or the mindbending unreality of the Void itself
seep into a creature’s mind and soul. Even some places
become spiritually polluted if the barrier to the existing
world wears thin or breaks.
Void taint is a measure of how much the Void’s influence
has seeped into and corrupted a creature’s essence.
Accumulating too much Void taint causes madness and
physical debilitation.
Whenever a creature is exposed to Void taint, it risks
losing a small piece of itself to that influence. The
Void attacks the very reality of the exposed creature,
overwriting a fragment of its personal reality with a
twisted version. An exposed creature must make a
Charisma saving throw against a DC based on the severity
of the exposure, as described on the Void Exposure table.
On a successful save, the creature might be shaken or
upset by the experience, but suffers no ill effects. Once
a creature has succeeded on a saving throw against a
particular kind of Void exposure, it is unaffected by further
exposures of the same type until it finishes a long rest.
CREATURE . . .
finishes a rest within a
Void-tainted area
10
learns Void-tainted lore 10
attunes to a Void-tainted magic item 15
learns a mythos magic or
Void magic spell
10+ spell level
is subjected to a mythos magic or
Void magic spell of 6th level or higher
Caster’s spell
save DC
encounters a creature of the Void
for the first time
10 + creature’s
Charisma
modifier
is exposed to the Void itself 20
On a failed save, the creature gains 1 point of Void
taint. A creature can accumulate an amount of Void taint
equal to its proficiency bonus + its Charisma modifier
(minimum of 2 points) without harm. When a creature’s
Void taint exceeds that number, it is afflicted with a form
of indefinite madness and its Void taint total resets to 0.
To determine which type of madness emerges, refer to the
Indefinite Madness table on the following page.
Instead of bearing this scar on its psyche, a creature
can choose to channel the Void’s influence into a physical
change, known as a flesh warp. The Void can produce an
infinite variety of these effects, ranging from subtle to
terrifying; the Flesh Warps table (see ) offers a
number of possibilities. A creature that has any flesh warp
has disadvantage on Charisma checks involving a creature
not of the Void for any purpose other than intimidation.
On either the Indefinite Madness table or the Flesh
Warps table, a die roll dictates the outcome unless the
GM decides otherwise. Under no circumstances should a
player be allowed to choose a desired result.
A greater restoration spell removes 1 point of Void taint
from the target, in addition to curing the target’s
indefinite madness, if the creature succeeds on a DC 15
Charisma saving throw.
Flesh warps are permanent manifestations of the Void
within the body of a tainted creature and are incredibly
difficult to remove. A regenerate spell or more powerful
magic is required to rid a creature of a flesh warp.
Few ever catch a glimpse of the cold immensity of
the stars and the Void, and fewer still are aware of the
unfathomable powers that call such places home. Those
who see beyond the veil of the mundane often go mad as a
result of the irreconcilable clash between their conception
of the world and the reality of universal insignificance.
To learn what the Void has to teach, one must embrace its
utter indifference toward life.
Clerics who direct their reverence toward the Void
and what it represents, rather than toward a deity
or some other entity of the typical sort, can commit
wholeheartedly to this discipline by following the path
laid out in the Void domain.
1st bane, protection from the Void*
3rd destructive resonance*, rope trick
5th gaseous form, Void strike*
7th dimension door, nether weapon*
9th contact other plane, living shadows*
* Described in this book
A cleric who adopts the Void domain gains proficiency in
Arcana and Intimidation.
A cleric of the Void domain also gains proficiency with
navigator’s tools.
CHANNEL DIVINITY: HIDDEN KNOWLEDGE
A cleric of the Void domain of 2nd level or higher can
use his or her Channel Divinity to gain advantage on
Intelligence checks. In addition, the cleric can choose to use
his or her Wisdom modifier instead of Intelligence modifier
when making these checks. Both effects last for 1 hour.
CHANNEL DIVINITY: DARK SECRETS
A cleric of the Void domain of 6th level or higher can use
Channel Divinity to inflict madness on nearby creatures.
When the cleric presents his or her holy symbol and speaks
of the Void, up to three creatures of the cleric’s choice that
can see and hear the cleric must make successful Wisdom
saving throws or be afflicted with a form of short-term
madness. An affected creature can repeat the saving throw
at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on a success.
D10 FLAW (LASTS UNTIL CURED)
1 “I am obsessed with discovering the hidden meaning in seemingly random objects, such as shards of smashed glass.”
2 “Some event in my life never happened. I won’t acknowledge it or anything to do with it.”
3 “I hear them whispering, always whispering. They’re loudest near corners of rooms and other angles in structures.”
4 “I constantly scrawl a set of strange glyphs without realizing it, sometimes going so far as to cut them into my skin.”
5 “When I’m excited or upset, some of my words come out in a different language that I don’t even understand.”
6 “The trappings and symbol of a certain deity cause me great pain to look upon or touch.”
7 “Ordered collections of objects are fascinating, and I have to study and count them.”
8 “I collect strange or disgusting trinkets, such as teeth of creatures I kill or scrapings of dirt from everywhere I sleep.”
9 “The music is always with me, and I must let it out. It doesn’t matter that no one else finds the song beautiful .”
10 “I hear scratching just on the other side of interior walls.”
A cleric of the Void domain of 8th level or higher has the
ability to infuse their weapon strikes with divine energy.
Once on each of the cleric’s turns, they can cause a weapon
attack to deal an extra 1d8 cold damage to the target on
a hit. For a cleric of 14th level or higher, the extra cold
damage is 2d8.
A cleric of the Void domain of 17th level or higher can use
an action to create crushing gravity in a 60-foot-radius area
around the cleric. The crushing gravity lasts for 3 rounds.
All the effects cease immediately if the cleric moves.
The area becomes difficult terrain for the duration. A
creature that starts its turn in the area or that enters it
for the first time on a turn must make a Strength saving
throw. On a failed save, the creature takes 7d6 bludgeoning
damage and is affected as if by a slow spell until the start of
its next turn.
The cleric and up to three designated creatures are
immune to the effect. After using this ability, the cleric
must finish a long rest before using it again.
Given the nature of Void magic, it comes as no surprise that
a specialty of arcane spellcasting sprang up from the study
of Void Speech.
Void casters are a standoffish and secretive lot, prone to
delving into monster-prowled ruins and the dark corners of
moldering libraries with equal caution; carelessly reading
a text that might be sprinkled with Void glyphs can be just
as deadly as stumbling into a den of trolls. As Void casters
continue to study Void Speech, they learn to properly
invoke the words and glyphs to empower a special type of
magic that taps the vast potential of the Void.
Some Void casters risk the darkness for the sake of
gaining knowledge or strengthening one’s defenses against
that which lies beyond. Others succumb to the madness
and corruption that Void magic causes and become living
conduits for the horrors seeking entry into the world.
A Void caster can accumulate twice the normal amount of
Void taint before being affected by exposure to the Void—
and has advantage on saving throws made to resist gaining
Void taint.
Starting at 2nd level, as a bonus action immediately before
casting a spell of 1st level or higher, a Void caster can utter
a few words of Void Speech and weave its dark magic into
the spell. The tainted spell disorients one creature the
caster can see that the spell affects when it is cast. The
creature has disadvantage on the next attack roll or ability
check it makes before the start of the Void caster’s next
turn. The caster must be able to speak in order to use this
feature.
Beginning at 6th level, when damaged by a creature
within 60 feet, a Void caster can use a reaction to bark
a destructive word of Void Speech. If the creature can
hear the caster, it takes necrotic damage equal to half the
caster’s wizard level + his or her Intelligence modifier. A
caster can use this ability a number of times equal to his or
her Intelligence modifier (minimum of one), and regains
all expended uses after finishing a long rest. The caster
can’t use this feature if he or she is unable to speak.
Starting at 10th level, when casting a Void magic spell that
targets only one creature, a Void caster can also target a
second creature. Additionally, he or she has advantage
on Constitution saving throws made to maintain
concentration on Void spells.
At 14th level, a Void caster can choose a point he or she can
see within 60 feet and use an action to utter a complicated
phrase in Void Speech. The area within 20 feet of the
point is shrouded in dim light for 1 minute. Any creature
in the area that is hostile to the caster gains vulnerability
to necrotic damage and has disadvantage on Wisdom
checks. An affected creature that starts its turn in the area
or that enters the area for the first time on its turn takes
3d6 necrotic damage, or half that damage with a successful
Constitution saving throw (using the Void caster’s spell
save DC). Once a caster uses this ability, it can’t be used
again until after finishing a short or long rest. The caster
can’t use this feature if he or she is unable to speak.
Mythos MagicThe work of author H. P. Lovecraft—the so-called
“Cthulhu mythos”—has been a cornerstone of RPG
storytelling since E. Gary Gygax immortalized its
influence in his “Inspirational and Educational Reading”
list. Taking its name from Lovecraft’s famous story, “The
Call of Cthulhu,” the mythos has become the backdrop
for a subgenre of fiction sometimes called cosmic horror.
At the foundation of cosmic horror are two ideas: that the
human mind is too tiny and weak to comprehend more
than the barest glimmer of the vastness of the universe
and the alien mysteries it contains; and that among those
D10 EFFECT (LASTS UNTIL CURED)
1 Barbed Hide. Spiny barbs protrude from the creature’s skin. Any creature grappling the affected creature takes
2d4 piercing damage at the start of its turn. The affected creature experiences constant pain while wearing armor
or heavy clothing, giving it disadvantage on Dexterity checks made under those conditions. The creature has
disadvantage on Deception and Persuasion checks unless the barbs are hidden from sight (which might require
covering the creature’s face, at the GM’s discretion).
2 Eyeless. The creature’s eyes rot away, vanish (leaving behind smooth flesh), or otherwise become useless. The
creature permanently gains the blinded condition. This condition can’t be removed without curing this flesh warp.
The creature’s other senses are enhanced by the Void, granting it blindsight out to a range of 10 feet as long as the
creature can hear.
3 Gleaming Skin. The creature’s skin takes on a waxy, unnatural sheen. It might be pale, translucent, or even
crystalline in appearance. The gleam grants other creatures advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks made to
locate the creature by sight. If the creature is in bright light when it is the target of a melee attack, it can use its
reaction to add 1 to its Armor Class if the attacker can see its skin.
4 Pliant Bones. The creature’s skeleton becomes cartilaginous and pliable. The creature can move through a space
as narrow as 6 inches wide without squeezing (provided the creature isn’t wearing rigid armor), and the creature’s
Strength is reduced by 2.
5 Prehensile Tail. The creature grows a 3-foot-long prehensile tail. The creature can use the tail to make one
melee weapon attack with a simple weapon weighing 2 pounds or less, or to make one unarmed strike that deals
bludgeoning damage equal to 1d4 + the creature’s Strength modifier. The creature has disadvantage on Acrobatics
checks.
6 Proboscis. The creature’s mouth mutates into a long, tubular organ like the maw of a mosquito, moth, or worm. The
creature loses the ability to speak and has disadvantage on Deception and Persuasion checks unless the proboscis is
hidden from sight. The creature can use the proboscis to make a blood-draining melee weapon attack. The attack roll
can be made using Strength or Dexterity; a hit deals piercing damage equal to 1d4 + the creature’s Strength modifier,
and the creature becomes attached to the target. While attached, the creature can’t attack but deals the attack’s
damage automatically to the creature it is attached to. The creature can detach by spending 5 feet of movement. The
creature being attacked or one of its allies within 5 feet of it can free the creature from the proboscis automatically by
using an action to do so.
7 Sentient Tumors. Large cystic tumors sprout from the creature’s shoulder, arm, or back. These growths are sentient
and emit a weak psychic field. The character’s mind cannot be read telepathically or affected by divination spells. If
the character takes psychic damage, however, he or she must succeed on a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or suffer the
effects of a confusion spell for 1 minute. The character also has disadvantage on Deception and Persuasion checks
unless the tumors are hidden from sight.
8 Stench. The creature exudes the stink of rotting flesh, acrid chemicals, sickly sweet perfume, or some other
odious aroma. Any other creature that starts its turn within 5 feet of the affected creature must succeed on a DC 12
Constitution saving throw or be poisoned until the start of the creature’s next turn. This stink clings to any objects
that remain in the creature’s possession for at least 24 hours. Attempting to sell any such object might be impossible,
or yields only half the normal price at best. Food in the creature’s possession spoils after 24 hours.
9 Tentacles. One of the creature’s hands twists into a nest of writhing tentacles. Any check or saving throw the
creature makes to maintain a grip or a grapple is made with advantage. Any check or saving throw it makes involving
fine motor control or Dexterity is made with disadvantage.
10 Tusks. The creature’s incisors grow into enormous, curved and discolored tusks like those of a boar or a warthog.
The creature has difficulty speaking and must make a successful DC 12 Dexterity check to cast a spell that has a
verbal component.
mysteries are entities so ancient, powerful, and malevolent
that they could extinguish Earth’s insignificant civilization
without caring or even noticing.
With that in mind, this section explores those “hidden
and fathomless worlds of strange life which may pulsate
in the gulfs beyond the stars” that Lovecraft and his
contemporaries pioneered in their strange fiction. Herein
you will find a host of forbidden secrets and eldritch lore;
a clandestine sort of magic that is full of both cosmic
potential and horrific consequences, and knowledge of
which erodes the sanity of all who pursue it.
The spells in this category resemble Void magic in that they
harness the power of the Void, but they are not beholden
to it. Mythos magic uses the Great Old Ones as a conduit
for its power, while Void magic originates from the Void
itself (a place of negation and emptiness that devours the
cosmos, not an entity).
Mythos spells can be learned by anyone with magical
aptitude—any character who has the ability to cast
spells can add mythos spells to their spell list. All other
characters can acquire a mythos spell only if they learn
it from one of the forbidden and furtive tomes of the
Cthulhu mythos or see the spell being cast.
But this power comes at great risk. Casters of mythos
magic literally exchange their sanity for magical ability.
Unless a character is protected by great Wisdom or a
bulwark of arcane wards, using these spells will certainly
lead to madness.
Mythos magic is typically the province of wizards,
although any spellcaster can learn these spells under the
right circumstances.
CANTRIPS (0 LEVEL)
Black Goat’s blessing (enchantment)
Semblance of dread (illusion)
Voorish sign (divination)
Ectoplasm (necromancy)
Mind exchange (transmutation)
Sleep of the deep (illusion)
Unseen strangler (conjuration)
Emanation of Yoth (necromancy)
Green decay (necromancy)
Hunger of Leng (enchantment)
Yellow sign (enchantment)
Curse of Yig (transmutation)
Eldritch communion (divination)
Summon eldritch servitor (conjuration)
Warp mind and matter (transmutation)
Sign of Koth (abjuration)
Seed of destruction (enchantment)
Summon avatar (conjuration)

The spells in this section are presented in alphabetical
order. When a mythos spell has a verbal component, the
caster must utter it in Void Speech.
BLACK GOAT’S BLESSING
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: BLACK GOAT’S BLESSING
Level: cantrip
School: Enchantment
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: 1 round
Description:
You raise your hand with fingers splayed and utter an
incantation of the Black Goat with a Thousand Young.
Your magic is blessed with the eldritch virility of the
All-Mother. The target has disadvantage on saving throws
against spells you cast until the end of your next turn.
5th-level transmutation (ritual) (mythos)
Casting Time: 1 minute
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S, M (a drop of snake venom)
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
This spell transforms a Small, Medium, or Large creature
that you can see within range into a servant of Yig (Creature
Codex, p. 325). An unwilling creature can attempt a Wisdom
saving throw, negating the effect with a success. A willing
creature is automatically affected and remains so for as
long as you maintain concentration on the spell.
The transformation lasts for the duration or until the
target drops to 0 hit points or dies. The target’s statistics,
including mental ability scores, are replaced by the
statistics of a servant of Yig. The transformed creature’s
alignment becomes neutral evil, and it is both friendly
to you and reverent toward the Father of Serpents. Its
equipment is unchanged. If the transformed creature was
unwilling, it makes a Wisdom saving throw at the end of
each of its turns. On a successful save, the spell ends, the
creature’s alignment and personality return to normal, and
it regains its former attitude toward you and toward Yig.
When it reverts to its normal form, the creature has the
number of hit points it had before it transformed. If it
reverts as a result of dropping to 0 hit points, any excess
damage carries over to its normal form.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: ECTOPLASM
Level: 2
School: Necromancy
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S, M (a pinch of bone dust)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Description:
You call forth an ectoplasmic manifestation of Medium
size that appears in an unoccupied space of your choice
within range that you can see. The manifestation lasts for
the spell’s duration. Any creature that ends its turn within
5 feet of the manifestation takes 2d6 psychic damage, or
half the damage with a successful Wisdom saving throw.
As a bonus action, you can move the manifestation up
to 30 feet. It can move through a creature’s space but can’t
remain in the same space as that creature. If it enters a
creature’s space, that creature takes 2d6 psychic damage,
or half the damage with a successful Wisdom saving throw.
On a failed save, the creature also has disadvantage on
Dexterity checks until the end of its next turn.
When you move the manifestation, it can flow through
a gap as small as 1 square inch, over barriers up to 5 feet
tall, and across pits up to 10 feet wide. The manifestation
sheds dim light in a 10-foot radius. It also leaves a thin film
of ectoplasmic residue on everything it touches or moves
through. This residue doesn’t illuminate the surroundings
but does glow dimly enough to show the manifestation’s
path. The residue dissipates 1 round after it is deposited.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 3rd level or higher, the damage increases by
1d6 for each slot level above 2nd.
5th-level divination (ritual) (mythos)
Casting Time: 1 minute
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (corvid entrails, a dried opium
poppy, and a glass dagger)
Duration: 1 minute
You contact a Great Old One and ask one question that
can be answered with a one-sentence reply no more than
twenty words long. You must ask your question before the
spell ends. There is a 25 percent chance that the answer
contains a falsehood or is misleading in some way. (The
GM determines this secretly.)
Great Old Ones have vast knowledge, but they aren’t
omniscient, so if your question pertains to information
beyond the Old One’s knowledge, the answer might be
vacuous, gibberish, or an angry, “I don’t know.”
This also reveals the presence of all aberrations within 300
feet of you. There is a 1-in-6 chance that each aberration you
become aware of also becomes aware of you.
If you cast eldritch communion two or more times before
taking a long rest, there is a cumulative 25 percent chance
for each casting after the first that you receive no answer
and become afflicted with short-term madness.
4th-level necromancy (ritual) (mythos)
Casting Time: 1 minute
Range: 90 feet
Components: V, S, M (a fistful of grave earth and a vial of
child’s blood)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
You call forth a ghost that takes the form of a spectral,
serpentlike assassin. It appears in an unoccupied space that
you can see within range. The ghost disappears when it’s
reduced to 0 hit points or when the spell ends.
The ghost is friendly to you and your companions for the
duration of the spell. Roll initiative for the ghost, which
takes its own turns. It obeys verbal commands that you
issue to it (no action required by you). If you don’t issue
a command to it, the ghost defends itself from hostile
creatures but doesn’t move or take other actions.
You are immune to the ghost’s Horrifying Visage
action but can willingly become the target of the ghost’s
Possession ability. You can end this effect on yourself as a
bonus action.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 6th or 7th level, you call forth two ghosts. If
you cast it using a spell slot of 8th or 9th level, you call forth
three ghosts.
4th-level necromancy (ritual) (mythos)
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
Your touch inflicts a nauseating, alien rot. Make a melee
spell attack against a creature within your reach. On a hit,
you afflict the creature with the supernatural disease green
decay (see below), and creatures within 15 feet of the target
who can see it must make a successful Constitution saving
throw or become poisoned until the end of their next turn.
You lose concentration on this spell if you can’t see the
target at the end of your turn.
Green Decay. The flesh of a creature that has this disease
is slowly consumed by a virulent extraterrestrial fungus.
While the disease persists, the creature has disadvantage
on Charisma and Wisdom checks and on Wisdom saving
throws, and it has vulnerability to acid, fire, and necrotic
damage. An affected creature must make a Constitution
saving throw at the end of each of its turns. On a failed
save, the creature takes 1d6 necrotic damage, and its hit
point maximum is reduced by an amount equal to the
necrotic damage taken. If the creature gets three successes
on these saving throws before it gets three failures,
the disease ends immediately (but the damage and the
hit point maximum reduction remain in effect). If the
creature gets three failures on these saving throws before
it gets three successes, the disease lasts for the duration of
the spell, and no further saving throws are allowed.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: HUNGER OF LENG
Level: 4
School: Enchantment
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 90 feet
Components: V, S, M (a pinch of salt and a drop of the
Duration: 1 minute
Description:
caster’s blood)
You curse a creature that you can see in range with an
insatiable, ghoulish appetite. If it has a digestive system,
the creature must make a successful Wisdom saving throw
or be compelled to consume the flesh of living creatures
for the duration.
The target gains a bite attack and moves to and attacks
the closest creature that isn’t an undead or a construct. The
target is proficient with the bite, and it adds its Strength
modifier to the attack and damage rolls. The damage is
piercing and the damage die is a d4. If the target is larger
than Medium, its damage die increases by 1d4 for each
size category it is above Medium. In addition, the target
has advantage on melee attack rolls against any creature
that doesn’t have all of its hit points.
If there isn’t a viable creature within range for the target
to attack, it deals piercing damage to itself equal to 2d4 + its
Strength modifier. The target can repeat the saving throw at
the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on a success. If
the target has two consecutive failures, hunger of Leng lasts
its full duration with no further saving throws allowed.
3rd-level transmutation (ritual) (mythos)
Casting Time: 1 minute
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S, M (a prism and silver coin)
Duration: Concentration, up to 8 hours
One humanoid of your choice that you can see within
range must make a Charisma saving throw. On a failed
save, you project your mind into the body of the target.
You use the target’s statistics but don’t gain access to its
knowledge, class features, or proficiencies, retaining your
own instead. Meanwhile, the target’s mind is shunted into
your body, where it uses your statistics but likewise retains
its own knowledge, class features, and proficiencies.
The exchange lasts until either of the the two bodies
drops to 0 hit points, until you end it as a bonus action,
or until you are forced out of the target body by an effect
such as a dispel magic or dispel evil and good spell (the latter
spell defeats mind exchange even though possession by a
humanoid isn’t usually affected by that spell). When the
effect of this spell ends, both switched minds return to
their original bodies. The target of the spell is immune to
mind exchange for 24 hours after succeeding on the saving
throw or after the exchange ends.
The effects of the exchange can be made permanent with
a wish spell or comparable magic.
8th-level enchantment (ritual) (mythos)
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S, M (five teeth from a still-living
humanoid and a vial of the caster’s blood)
Duration: 1 hour
This spell impregnates a living creature with a rapidly
gestating hydra that consumes the target from within
before emerging to wreak havoc on the world. Make a
ranged spell attack against a living creature within range
that you can see. On a hit, you implant a five-headed
embryonic growth into the creature. Roll 1d3 + 1 to
determine how many rounds it takes the embryo to mature.
During the rounds when the embryo is gestating, the
affected creature takes 5d4 slashing damage at the start of
its turn, or half the damage with a successful Constitution
saving throw.
When the gestation period has elapsed, a tiny hydra
erupts from the target’s abdomen at the start of your turn.
The hydra appears in an unoccupied space adjacent to
the target and immediately grows into a full-size Huge
aberration. Nearby creatures are pushed away to clear
a sufficient space as the hydra grows. This creature is a
standard hydra, but with the ability to cast bane as an action
(spell save DC 11) requiring no spell components. Roll
initiative for the hydra, which takes its own turns. It obeys
verbal commands that you issue to it (no action required by
you). If you don’t give it a command or it can’t follow your
command, the hydra attacks the nearest living creature.
At the end of each of the hydra’s turns, you must make
a DC 15 Charisma saving throw. On a successful save, the
hydra remains under your control and friendly to you and
your companions. On a failed save, your control ends, the
hydra becomes hostile to all creatures, and it attacks the
nearest creature to the best of its ability.
The hydra disappears at the end of the spell’s duration,
or its existence can be cut short with a wish spell or
comparable magic, but nothing less. The embryo can be
destroyed before it reaches maturity by using a dispel magic
spell under the normal rules for dispelling high-level magic.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: SEMBLANCE OF DREAD
Level: cantrip
School: Illusion
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self (10-foot radius)
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Description:
You adopt the visage of the faceless god Nyarlathotep. For
the duration, any creature within 10 feet of you and able to
see you can’t willingly move closer to you unless it makes
a successful Wisdom saving throw at the start of its turn.
Constructs and undead are immune to this effect.
For the duration of the spell, you also gain vulnerability
to radiant damage and have advantage on saving throws
against effects that cause the frightened condition.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: SIGN OF KOTH
Level: 7
School: Abjuration
Casting Time: 1 turn
Range: Self (60-foot radius)
Components: V, S, M (a platinum dagger and a powdered
Duration: Until dispelled
Description:
black pearl worth 500 gp, which the spell consumes)
You invoke the twilight citadels of Koth to create a field
of magical energy in the shape of a 60-foot-radius,
60-foot-tall cylinder centered on you. The only visible
evidence of this field is a black rune that appears on every
doorway, window, or other portal inside the area.
Choose one of the following creature types: aberration,
beast, celestial, dragon, elemental, fey, fiend, giant,
humanoid, monstrosity, ooze, plant, or undead. The sign
affects creatures of the chosen type (including you, if
applicable) in the following ways:
• The creatures can’t willingly enter the cylinder’s area
by nonmagical means; the cylinder acts as an invisible,
impenetrable wall of force. If an affected creature tries
to enter the cylinder’s area by using teleportation,
a dimensional shortcut, or other magical means, it
must make a successful Charisma saving throw or the
attempt fails.
• They cannot hear any sounds that originate inside the
cylinder.
• They have disadvantage on attack rolls against targets
inside the cylinder.
• They can’t charm, frighten, or possess creatures inside
the cylinder.
“When the stars were right, they could plunge from world to
world through the sky . . .”
(From “The Call of Cthulhu” by H.P. Lovecraft)
Mythos magic seethes with the unnameable secrets of the
Great Old Ones—alien beings from beyond space and time
whose warped, eldritch minds are immeasurably superior
to our own and whose sinister, loathsome agendas
challenge not only our sanity but our very existence.
Many of the spells in this section refer to and take
inspiration from specific Great Old Ones and Elder Gods of
the Cthulhu mythos. These names can serve as narrative
waypoints as you chart the cosmic apocalypse of a
mythos‑laden campaign. In the same spirit of collaboration
that fueled Lovecraft’s circle of writers, you should feel free
to develop your own Mythic entities.
Some of the Great Old Ones and Elder Gods central
to mythos magic include: Cthulhu, Yog‑Sothoth (the
Beyond‑One), Shub‑Niggurath (the Black Goat of
the Woods), Bokrug, Tsathoggua, Koth, Bran Mak
Morn, Nodens, Nyarlathotep (the Crawling Chaos),
Hastur, Hriggala (the Jaws of Vardesain), the Magnum
Innominandum (the Not‑to‑Be‑Named One), Yig (the
Father of Serpents), and the White Goddess.
Creatures that aren’t affected by the field and that take a
short rest inside it regain twice the usual number of hit
points for each Hit Die spent at the end of the rest.
When you cast this spell, you can choose to reverse its
magic; doing this will prevent affected creatures from
leaving the area instead of from entering it, make them
unable to hear sounds that originate outside the cylinder,
and so forth. In this case, the field provides no benefit for
taking a short rest.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell
slot of 8th level or higher, the radius increases by 30 feet for
each slot level above 7th.
3rd-level illusion (ritual) (mythos)
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60-foot radius
Components: V, S, M (a pinch of black sand, a tallow
candle, and a drop of cephalopod ink)
Duration: 8 hours
Your magic haunts the dreams of others. Choose a
sleeping creature that you are aware of within range.
Creatures that don’t sleep, such as elves, can’t be targeted.
The creature must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or
it garners no benefit from the rest, and when it awakens,
it gains one level of exhaustion and is afflicted with
short-term madness.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell
slot of 4th level or higher, you can affect one additional
creature for each slot level above 3rd.
5th-level conjuration (ritual) (mythos)
Casting Time: 1 minute
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S, M (a vial of the caster’s blood and a
silver dagger)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
You summon eldritch aberrations that appear in
unoccupied spaces you can see within range. Choose one
of the following options for what appears:
• Two ghasts of Leng (Creature Codex, p. 168)
• One shantak (Creature Codex, p. 328)
When the summoned creatures appear, you must make
a Charisma saving throw. On a success, the creatures are
friendly to you and your allies. On a failure, the creatures
are friendly to no one and attack the nearest creatures,
pursuing and fighting for as long as possible.
Roll initiative for the summoned creatures, which take
their own turns as a group. If friendly to you, they obey
your verbal commands (no action required by you to issue
a command), or they attack the nearest living creature if
they are not commanded otherwise.
Each round when you maintain concentration on the
spell, you must make a successful DC 15 Wisdom saving
throw at the end of your turn or take 1d4 psychic damage.
If the total of this damage exceeds your Wisdom score,
you gain 1 point of Void taint and you are afflicted with a
form of short-term madness. The same penalty applies
when the damage exceeds twice your Wisdom score, three
times your Wisdom score, and so forth, if you maintain
concentration for that long.
A summoned creature disappears when it drops to 0 hit
points or when the spell ends. If you stop concentrating on
the spell before 1 hour has elapsed, the creatures become
uncontrolled and hostile until they disappear 1d6 rounds
later or until they are killed.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a
7th- or 8th-level spell slot, you can summon four ghasts of
Leng or a hound of Tindalos (Creature Codex, p. 221). When
you cast it with a 9th-level spell slot, you can summon five
ghasts of Leng or a nightgaunt (Creature Codex, p. 277).
9th-level conjuration (ritual) (mythos)
Casting Time: 1 minute
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S, M (a vial of the caster’s blood, a dried
opium poppy, and a silver dagger)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
You summon a worldly incarnation of a Great Old One,
which appears in an unoccupied space you can see within
range. This avatar manifests as an emanation of elder
darkness, augmented by boons from the Void. Choose one
of the following options for the type of avatar that appears.
(Other options might be available if the GM allows.) An
asterisk indicates a spell described in this section.
• Avatar of Cthulhu. The incarnation is a deep one (Tome of
Beasts, p. 73) that can innately cast command and sleep of
the deep* at will.
• Avatar of Nyarlathotep. The incarnation is a dark voice
(Creature Codex, p. 73) that can innately cast bane and
semblance of dread* at will.
• Avatar of Shub-Niggurath. The incarnation is a goat-man
(Tome of Beasts, p. 231) that can innately cast Black Goat’s
blessing* and unseen strangler* at will.
• Avatar of Yog-Sothoth. The incarnation is a human with
1d4 + 1 flesh warps that can innately cast gift of resilience*
(see ) and thunderwave at will.
When the avatar appears, you must make a Charisma
saving throw. On a success, the avatar is friendly to you
and your allies. On a failed save, the avatar is friendly to no
one and attacks the nearest creature, pursuing and fighting
for as long as possible.
Roll initiative for the avatar, which takes its own turns.
If it is friendly to you, it obeys verbal commands you
issue to it (no action required by you). If the avatar has no
command, it attacks the nearest creature.
Each round when you maintain concentration on the
spell, you must make a successful DC 15 Wisdom saving
throw at the end of your turn or take 1d6 psychic damage.
If the total of this damage exceeds your Wisdom score, you
gain 1 point of Void taint and you are afflicted with a form
of short-term madness. The same penalty recurs when the
damage exceeds twice your Wisdom score, three times your
Wisdom score, and so forth, if you maintain concentration
for that long.
The avatar disappears when it drops to 0 hit points or
when the spell ends. If you stop concentrating before 1 hour
has elapsed, the avatar becomes uncontrolled and hostile
until it disappears 1d6 rounds later or until it is killed.
3rd-level conjuration (ritual) (mythos)
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (a pinch of sulfur and a live rodent)
Duration: 8 hours
You conjure an immaterial, tentacled aberration in an
unoccupied space you can see within range, and you
specify a password that the phantom recognizes. The entity
remains where you conjured it until the spell ends, until
you dismiss it as an action, or until you move more than 80
feet from it.
The strangler is invisible to all creatures except you,
and it can’t be harmed. When a Small or larger creature
approaches within 30 feet of it without speaking the
password that you specified, the strangler starts whispering
your name. This whispering is always audible to you,
regardless of other sounds in the area, as long as you’re
conscious. The strangler sees invisible creatures and can
see into the Ethereal Plane. It ignores illusions.
If any creatures hostile to you are within 5 feet of the
strangler at the start of your turn, the strangler attacks one
of them with a tentacle. It makes a melee weapon attack
with a bonus equal to your spellcasting ability modifier +
your proficiency bonus. On a hit, it deals 3d6 bludgeoning
damage, and a Large or smaller creature is grappled
(escape DC = your spellcasting ability modifier + your
proficiency bonus). Until this grapple ends, the target is
restrained, and the strangler can’t attack another target.
If the strangler scores a critical hit, the target begins to
suffocate and can’t speak until the grapple ends.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: VOORISH SIGN
Level: 1
School: Divination
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self (20-foot radius)
Components: S
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
Description:
For the duration, invisible creatures and objects within 20
feet of you become visible to you, and you have advantage
on saving throws against effects that cause the frightened
condition. The effect moves with you, remaining centered
on you until the duration expires.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 3rd level or higher, the radius increases by 5
feet for every two slot levels above 1st.
6th-level transmutation (ritual) (mythos)
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (root of deadly nightshade and a
drop of the caster’s blood)
Duration: Until cured or dispelled
A creature you can see within range undergoes a baleful
transmogrification. The target must make a successful
Wisdom saving throw or suffer a flesh warp and be afflicted
with a form of indefinite madness.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: YELLOW SIGN
Level: 4
School: Enchantment
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: 1d10 hours
Description:
You attempt to afflict a humanoid you can see within range
with memories of distant, alien realms and their peculiar
inhabitants. The target must make a successful Wisdom
saving throw or be afflicted with a form of long-term
madness and be charmed by you for the duration of the
spell or until you or one of your allies harms it in any way.
While charmed in this way, the creature regards you as a
sacred monarch. If you or an ally of yours is fighting the
creature, it has advantage on its saving throw.
A successful remove curse spell ends both effects.
If antiquity looks upon the stories of Tolkien and
dreams of fated rings, or reflects upon the multiverse of
Moorcock’s White Wolf and thinks of cursed swords,
then surely the Cthulhu mythos will be remembered for
its magical tomes. Described here are three of the most
infamous installments in the mythos atheneum: the
accursed Necronomicon, Robert E. Howard’s Nameless Cults,
and the ubiquitous Book of Eibon. Mythos spells can be
learned only from a mythos grimoire like these or through
direct contact with a mythos spellcaster—and those
grimoires and casters take many abhorrent forms.
With a multiverse-wide perspective in mind, these
books are considered to be translations of the “real world”
originals—which is to say, they come from the alternate-
history Earth of Lovecraft’s Cthulhu mythos setting,
including elements of Howard’s Hyborian Age. How they
made their way through time and space to wind up on
alien worlds or your own setting is the stuff of splendidly
macabre speculation (and ultimately is up to you, the GM).
One thing’s for sure: these tomes are beyond precious to
all who hunger for the eldritch knowledge of the Great
Old Ones, and such longings aren’t restricted to humanity
and near-humanity. There also exist multitudes of odious
aberrations, monstrosities, fiends, and worse entities who
will stop at nothing to possess these tomes.
Wondrous item, legendary (requires attunement)
This fragmentary black book is reputed to descend from
the forgotten realms of Hyperborea. It contains puzzling
guidelines for frightful necromantic rituals and maddening
interdimensional travel.
The book holds the following spells (an asterisk indicates
a spell found in this book): semblance of dread*, ectoplasm*,
animate dead, speak with dead, emanation of Yoth*, green
decay*, yellow sign*, eldritch communion*, create undead, arcane
gate, harm, astral projection, Void rift*, and any additional
spells of the GM’s choosing.
If attuned to it, the book’s owner can use it as a spellbook
and as an arcane focus. In addition, while holding the
book, an attuned owner can use a bonus action to cast
a necromancy spell that is written in this tome without
expending a spell slot or using any verbal or somatic
components. Once used, this property of the book can’t be
used again until the next dawn.
Wondrous item, legendary (requires attunement)
This dubious old book, bound in heavy leather with
iron hasps, details the forbidden secrets and monstrous
blasphemy of a multitude of nightmare cults that worship
nameless and ghastly entities. It reads like the monologue
of a maniac, illustrated with unsettling glyphs and filled
with fluctuating moments of vagueness and clarity.
The tome contains all the mythos magic spells in this
section, plus any additional spells of the GM’s choosing.
The book’s bearer can reference Nameless Cults whenever
he or she makes an Intelligence check to recall information
about any aspect of evil or the occult, such as lore about
Great Old Ones, mythos creatures, or the cults that
worship them. When doing so, the proficiency bonus for
that check is doubled.
Wondrous item, artifact (requires attunement)
This monstrous-looking tome bound in humanoid skin
has an almost palpable aura of dread. A grotesque and
ghoulish face is stretched across its loathsome cover.
The Necronomicon is replete with fantastic legends of
elder magic and abhorrent secrets from beyond. Its
author, the mad poet-philosopher Alhazred, is said to
have been seized by an invisible monster in broad daylight
and devoured in front of a large number of horror-
stricken witnesses. Throughout unknown centuries, the
Necronomicon was rigidly suppressed by civil authorities
and by all branches of organised ecclesiasticism. Reading
this dreaded tome always leads to terrible consequences.
Among its hideous contents, the Necronomicon details
abstract formulae on the properties of space and the
linkage of dimensions both known and unknown. It
describes the presence of forbidden cults among human
beings who serve elder, primordial races and who worship
unseen entities with alien-tongued names such as
Yog-Sothoth and Cthulhu.
Despite centuries of repression, a handful of copies
of this horrible artifact still exist. Each one is a closely
guarded secret of its owner, and not all the owners are
human or even humanoid.
To reap the “benefits” of the Necronomicon, a creature
must become attuned to it and then spend another 19
hours reading and studying its blasphemous text. The
creature can then add to and copy the book’s contents,
provided any additions advance the cause of chaos or evil
and expand upon the lore already inside. (Because of this,
no two copies of the Necronomicon are identical, and no one
knows what has been added to or excised from Alhazred’s
original text.)
When a non-evil creature becomes attuned to the
Necronomicon, it must make a successful DC 18 Charisma
saving throw, or its alignment changes to neutral evil.
Unseen forces of evil will pursue any owner of the book,
hoping to steal it for themselves or for a more powerful
master. Once every three days while a creature is attuned
to the book, it has a 19 percent chance to encounter or be
attacked by a mythos entity or occult adversary of the GM’s
choosing. If a creature dies while attuned to the book, a
Great Old One claims its soul, and it can’t be restored to
life by any means.
Random Properties. The Necronomicon has the following
random properties:
• 2 minor beneficial properties
• 1 major beneficial property
• 1 minor detrimental property
• 2 major detrimental properties
Adjusted Ability Scores. After a creature spends the
requisite amount of time reading and studying the book,
its Intelligence score increases by 2, to a maximum of 24,
and its Wisdom score decreases by 2, to a minimum of 3.
The book can’t adjust the same creature’s ability scores
more than once.
Abstract Formulae. The Necronomicon contains a
multitude of mind-shattering evil magic, including all
mythos spells and Void spells in this section, all standard
necromancy spells, and any additional spells of the GM’s
design or choosing.
Eldritch Magic. Once a creature has read and studied
the book, any spell slot it expends to cast an arcane spell
counts as a spell slot one level higher when determining
the spell’s effect.
Eldritch Lore. The book’s bearer can reference the
Necronomicon whenever it makes an Intelligence check to
recall information about any aspect of evil or secrets of the
multidimensional universe, such as lore about Great Old
Ones or the properties of disquieting technology. When
doing so, the proficiency bonus for that check is doubled.
Eldritch Guise. While a creature carries the Necronomicon
and is attuned to it, the creature can speak, read, and write
Void Speech, and it can cast semblance of dread (described
above) as a bonus action.
Voidmarked. After a creature spends the requisite
amount of time reading and studying the book, it acquires
mental and physical disfigurements as hideous signs of
its devotion to the Great Old Ones. The creature gains
one flesh warp and one form of indefinite madness. The
voidmark grants you advantage on Persuasion checks
made to interact with aberrations and on Intimidation
checks made to interact with non-aberrations.
Thought Control. A creature that is attuned to the book
and holding it can use an action to cast dominate monster on
a creature within range (save DC 18). This property can’t be
used again for 19 hours.
Pages can be torn from the Necronomicon, but any eldritch
lore contained on those pages finds its way back into the
book eventually, usually when a new author or translator
adds pages to the tome. It is rumored that the Necronomicon
can’t be destroyed as long as a spawn of the Great Old One
Azathoth exists in the multiverse. A short-term solution
exists, however: casting the book into the fire of a dying
star scorches all the writing and imagery from its pages and
renders the book useless for 6d6 + 6 years.
Unsavory
CharactersEvery world has an abundance of villainous types that
stand in the way of what the heroes want to accomplish.
Two more examples of that sort are presented below: the
cleric who seduces followers instead of saving them, and
the grisly wizard known as the necrophage.
The Lust domain concerns itself with desire, sex, and
awakening passion in others. Clerics of lust often
seek to seduce others with their wiles, either for their
own pleasure, to lure them into a cult, or to otherwise
manipulate them into doing the cleric’s bidding.
1st charm person, command
3rd alter self, suggestion
5th hypnotic pattern, throes of ecstasy*
7th compulsion, lovesick*
9th dominate person, kiss of the succubus*
* Described in this book
A cleric who adopts the Lust domain learns the friends
cantrip. They also gain proficiency in one of the following
skills: Deception, Performance, or Persuasion.
CHANNEL DIVINITY: LUSTFUL DISTRACTION
A cleric of the Lust domain of 2nd level or higher can
use Channel Divinity to instill fascination and lust in
others. As an action, the cleric speaks seductively and
gazes lasciviously at creatures of his or her choice within
30 feet who can see and hear the cleric. Each target must
make a DC 12 Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, a
target is compelled to devote its attention to the cleric for
1 minute. While the cleric commands their attention, the
targets have disadvantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks
to perceive any creature other than the cleric, and the cleric
has advantage on Charisma (Deception) or (Persuasion)
checks to further influence their behavior.
A cleric of the Lust domain of 6th level of higher can keep
the targets of a Lustful Distraction spellbound for up to 10
minutes as long as the cleric continues to speak to them.
A cleric of the Lust domain of 8th level or higher has the
ability to infuse his or her weapon strikes with divine
energy. Once on each of the cleric’s turns, when hitting
a creature with a weapon attack, the cleric can cause the
attack to deal an extra 1d8 psychic damage to the target.
For a cleric of 14th level or higher, the extra psychic
damage is 2d8.
A cleric of the Lust domain of 17th level or higher can
command creatures he or she has seduced. While creatures
are enraptured by Lustful Distraction, the cleric can take a
bonus action on his or her turn to verbally command what
each of those creatures will do on its next turn.
The practice of necrophagy is similar to that of necromancy,
but with a more horrific flavor. Necrophages, sometimes
called death eaters, consume the flesh of the recently
deceased to steal those creatures’ knowledge and power.
Adherents of this specialty claim that it is the origin of
all necromancy magic and necrotic energy. They view
the Negative Plane as a cosmic necrophage all its own,
devouring all matter, energy, and life and replacing it with
necrotic energy and undead.
Except as noted, necrophages function as necromancers
and use the wizard spell list. Instead of gaining the
corresponding features of the School of Necromancy, a
necrophage has the features described below.
When adopting this specialty at 2nd level, a necrophage
adds the find familiar spell to his or her spellbook if it’s not
already there. When a necrophage conjures a familiar, the
creature is undead instead of a celestial, fey, or fiend. The
familiar gains the following trait.
Undead Fortitude. If damage reduces the familiar to 0
hit points, it makes a Constitution saving throw with a DC
equal to 5 + the damage taken, unless the damage is radiant
or from a critical hit. On a success, the familiar drops to 1
hit point instead.
A necrophage of 6th level or higher can use an action to
consume a bit of flesh from an undead or a recently slain
(within 1 hour) creature with an Intelligence of 6 or higher.
An unwilling target is allowed a DC 14 Constitution saving
throw to resist the effect.
If the target is affected, the necrophage gains temporary
hit points equal to his or her wizard level, and if the target
was proficient in any Intelligence skills, the necrophage
can pick one of them. He or she gains proficiency in that
skill or, if already proficient, doubles his or her normal
proficiency bonus when using that skill. The temporary
hit points and absorbed skill proficiency last until the
necrophage finishes a long rest.
A necrophage can’t target the same creature with this
feature twice within 24 hours. If he or she uses the feature
on a different creature, the original effect ends.
A necrophage of 10th level or higher can use Memory
of Flesh to gain information from the creature as if the
necrophage had cast speak with dead instead of gaining
temporary hit points and a skill proficiency. An unwilling
target has disadvantage on its saving throw.
As with Memory of Flesh, a necrophage can’t target the
same creature with this feature twice within 24 hours. If he
or she uses the feature on a different creature, the original
effect ends.
A particular creature can be affected by Fruit of the Mind
a number of times equal to its Constitution modifier.
Beyond that maximum, fuerther attemts to target it yield
no results.
A necrophage of 14th level or higher gains several benefits
after using Memory of Flesh or Fruit of the Mind: he or
she no longer requires air, food, drink, or sleep; gains
immunity to disease, to being poisoned, and to poison
and necrotic damage; and can’t suffer a reduction in hit
point maximum. These benefits last until the necrophage
finishes a long rest.
ARCANE TRAPS(1d6) cold damage at the end of its turn, and can repeat the
saving throw, ending the effect on itself on a success.
Magic trap (enchantment)
This auditory trap uses otherworldly piping to transform
its listeners into addlepated imbeciles.
The trap’s insidious nature allows it to be hidden inside
a chest, behind a tapestry, or even within a bell or among
rafters. The only outward sign of the trap is a series of
skewed star-like symbols engraved into the trapped
room, chest, or object. The functional components (a
series of small silver pipes, like a pan pipe, and a small
set of magically animated bellows) can be found with a
successful DC 12 Intelligence (Investigation) check. Once
they are found, a successful DC 17 Intelligence (Arcana)
check identifies the trap and the correct method of
disarming it: a dispel magic spell (DC 17), which deactivates
it for 1 hour. Attempts to physically disarm the trap by
tampering with the pipes or bellows trigger its music and
effects immediately.
Touching a trapped chest or object, or the door of a
trapped room, triggers the trap. When this occurs, each
creature within 10 feet takes 7 (2d6) psychic damage
and must make a DC 12 Intelligence saving throw. On a
failed save, the creature’s Intelligence and Charisma are
decreased by 1d6 each. A creature takes the same psychic
damage each round it listens to the piping; plugging one’s
ears reduces the damage by half. The effect lasts until
the creature finishes a long rest or is targeted by greater
restoration or similar magic.
Magic trap (conjuration)
An infernal convocation is a way to use a conjuration in a
trap. A powerful caster binds a fiend, which is summoned
to a specific site when a trigger occurs. The fiend collects
a second sacrifice—whoever triggered the trap—and is
freed of its debt to the caster.
The trap is triggered as soon as a creature enters a magic
circle, which can be inscribed on the wall or ceiling, or even
woven into a carpet or limned on a cavern floor. There’s
no limit on the circle’s size; horrific tales of lairs being
encircled are told over campfires.
The purpose of the circle is deduced with a successful DC
18 Intelligence (Arcana) check. It can be disarmed with
a successful DC 15 Intelligence (Arcana) check or a dispel
Wizards and other practitioners of magic create traps
that use spells as much as they use physical objects; some
of these hindrances have features in common with pits
and spear traps, while others rely on a series of finely
wrought glyphs or enchanted components that require
arcane knowledge to identify, much less disarm. A small
collection of these traps is provided here.
CTHUGHA’S CARESS
Magic trap (evocation)
The caress of Cthugha is patient, volatile, and the basis
of a trap that evokers find appealing. When this trap is
triggered by stepping on a pressure plate, opaque smoke
fills a 10-foot square for 2 rounds atop the plate, leaving a
thin film of soot on everything within the square when it
dissipates. On the following round, a flame fills the same
10-foot square and lasts for 2 rounds, dealing 14 (4d6) fire
damage, or half as much damage on a successful DC 14
Dexterity saving throw. Creatures covered in the soot have
disadvantage on the saving throw.
A successful DC 14 Intelligence (Arcana) check identifies
the soot as fire elemental residue. On a check that beats the
DC by 4 or more, the character recalls that the substance is
highly combustible. Removing the soot requires an action.
The pressure plate is detected with a successful DC 16
Wisdom (Perception) check, and it can be disarmed with
a successful DC 14 Dexterity check using thieves’ tools.
Failing this check by 4 or more activates the trap.
FURIES’ MOAT
Magic trap (enchantment)
Wizards of the Northern tribes fight alongside their
berserker brethren, intimately aware of the awful power,
and strategic limitations, of a warrior in the thrall of
mindless wrath. This trap is placed in a water-filled moat
or ditch that is laced with enchantments to drive enemies
into an incandescent, all-consuming rage.
The enchantment can be detected by a successful DC 14
Intelligence (Arcana) check. Swimming across the water
to the other side of the moat without incident requires a
successful DC 14 Strength (Athletics) check. On a failed
check, the creature is swept under, taking 3 (1d6) cold
damage, and it must make a successful DC 12 Wisdom
saving throw or be filled with murderous anger that can be
slaked only by attacking any creature within reach. While
affected, a creature must use its action to attack the nearest
other creature. An affected creature takes an additional 3
magic spell (which renders it briefly inactive). If a creature
that is not proficient in Arcana gets a failure on either
check, the trap is triggered and the fiend is summoned. An
uncommon variant of the trap exists in which a wall of force
spell traps both the prey and the summoned creature in
the same area.
SEVEN FLAVORS (OF DOOM)
Magic trap (evocation)
The number seven holds mystical importance in many
civilizations, but only kobolds apply that veneration to
their beloved art of trapmaking. The creation known as
seven flavors is a deceptively simple trap in which eldritch
needles spring from seven hidden tubes to strike a single
target and release their charge.
The trap is detected with a successful DC 15 Wisdom
(Perception) check. It can be disarmed only with dispel
magic, though it can be avoided or rendered ineffective
by blocking all seven holes. Each needle makes a ranged
attack with a +8 bonus. On a hit, a needle deals 7 (1d8+3)
damage of a different type from this list: lightning, fire,
cold, acid, psychic, thunder, or necrotic.
Magic trap (evocation/illusion)
The dwarven inventor of the trap known as step softly
believed that adventurers are their own worst enemy, and
couldn’t resist using their eagerness against them. A room
is built with a false floor too flimsy to support any weight
above a pit trap and temporarily braced with magic to give
it additional strength.
When everyone in the party has entered the room,
glyphs blaze into view, covering every inch of the
floor, appearing to trap the occupants in their spots. A
successful DC 10 Intelligence (Arcana) check reveals that
the glyphs are used with evocation magic. A dispel magic
spell dismisses the glyphs and the magic that supports the
floor, causing everything on the false floor to fall into the
pit beneath the room. A detect magic spell, coupled with
a successful DC 18 Wisdom (Perception) check, reveals
the glyphs glowing with illusion magic and a layer of
evocation magic under them.
Magic trap (enchantment)
Sometimes capturing thieves is more important than
permanently stopping them, and that was the impetus
for creating the dreamless slumber trap, which layers an
enchantment over a traditional needle trap on a chest or
door. The trap is triggered by touching the chest or door.
When that occurs, the creature takes 1 piercing damage
and must succeed on a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or
fall into a dreamless, ageless, magical stasis. The stasis
remains until it is successfully removed by dispel magic (DC
17) or until three months have passed.
The trap can be detected with a successful DC 15
Intelligence (Investigation) check, and disarmed with a
successful DC 15 Dexterity check using thieves’ tools.
Spell Variations
This section contains riffs and twists for three classic
spells: charm person, fireball, and raise dead. These
experimental variations are meant to entertain players
and GMs who are more experienced with—or even jaded
by—the standard versions. Changes affect both flavor
and implementation, so the spells look different when
cast, have different power levels, and even have radically
different effects.
Each section covers one of the three standard spells, with
variations on its theme. Some are similar in effect to the
original but with altered story elements, and others have
more pronounced tweaks to their effects on the game.
Variant Spell LISTS
All these variant spells are available in your campaign only
with the GM’s approval.
CANTRIPS (0 LEVEL)
Lesser charm (enchantment)
Charm of long standing (enchantment)
Raise ghost (necromancy)

Slow-burn fireball (evocation)
Moonlight charm (enchantment)
Bouncing fireball (evocation)
CANTRIPS (0 LEVEL)
Lesser charm (enchantment)
Charm of long standing (enchantment)
Bedazzling charm (enchantment)
Charm of great fondness (enchantment)
Solitary fireball (evocation)
Raise ghost (necromancy)
Raise shade (necromancy)
Moonlight charm (enchantment)
CANTRIPS (0 LEVEL)
Lesser charm (enchantment)
Charm of long standing (enchantment)
Bedazzling charm (enchantment)
Charm of great fondness (enchantment)
Solitary fireball (evocation)
Slow-burn fireball (evocation)
Moonlight charm (enchantment)
Bouncing fireball (evocation)
Raise hero (necromancy)
Raise shade (necromancy)
Raise ghost (necromancy)
Raise hero (necromancy)
Raise shade (necromancy)
Raise elder (necromancy)
Raise questing dead (necromancy)
CANTRIPS (0 LEVEL)
Lesser charm (enchantment)
Charm of long standing (enchantment)
Moonlight charm (enchantment)
Raise nemesis (necromancy)
Raise ghost (necromancy)
Raise hero (necromancy)
Raise shade (necromancy)
CANTRIPS (0 LEVEL)
Lesser charm (enchantment)
Charm of long standing (enchantment)
Bedazzling charm (enchantment)
Charm of great fondness (enchantment)
Solitary fireball (evocation)
Charm Person Variants
Charm person is the classic enchantment, dating to the
origins of the game in 1974. Its appeal is obvious: an
enemy grants a bit of friendly head start to retreating foes,
a recalcitrant informant suddenly becomes talkative, or a
town guard agrees to ignore a crime because that’s what
friends do for each other. The five variant spells presented
here all work on this theme but with differing levels of
power and specificity.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: LESSER CHARM
Level: cantrip
School: Enchantment
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: 1 minute
Description:
You attempt to charm a humanoid you can see within
range. The targeted creature makes a Wisdom saving
throw, with advantage if you or your companions are
fighting it or threatening it. If the saving throw fails, the
humanoid is charmed by you until the spell’s duration
expires, until you or any of your companions do anything
harmful to it, or until it performs a minor favor for you. The
charmed creature regards you as a friendly acquaintance or
distant kin. It is willing to reveal a secret, open a door, lift
an object, share food or water, or perform another favor on
a similar level. It won’t fight on your behalf, defend you in
combat, put its life or property at risk, or threaten or harm
someone else it considers a friend. When the spell ends, the
creature knows it was charmed by you.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: CHARM OF LONG STANDING
Level: 1
School: Enchantment
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: 1 day per caster’s spellcasting level
Description:
As charm person but with a longer duration. The target of
the spell remains charmed for one day per level you’ve
attained in your spellcasting class. In addition, so long as
the target remains charmed by you, you are also charmed
by the target. While you’re charmed this way, you won’t
tolerate any harm, abuse, or mistreatment being directed
toward the spell’s target.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: BEDAZZLING CHARM
Level: 2
School: Enchantment
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: 1 minute
Description:
You attempt to charm a humanoid you can see within
range. It makes a Wisdom saving throw, with advantage
if you or your companions are fighting it or threatening
it. If the saving throw fails, the humanoid is charmed by
a third humanoid you designate that both of you can see.
The spell ends after 1 minute, when you or any of your
companions do anything harmful to either of the spell’s
targets, or when the third humanoid disappears from the
charmed creature’s sight. The charmed creature regards
the third creature as a friendly acquaintance and will
follow it to keep it within sight. When the spell ends, the
creature knows it was bedazzled by you to regard the third
creature favorably.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: CHARM OF GREAT FONDNESS
Level: 2
School: Enchantment
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: 1 hour
Description:
You attempt to charm a humanoid you can see within
range. It makes a Wisdom saving throw, with advantage
if you or your companions are fighting it or if you are not
the same species as the target. If the saving throw fails, the
targeted humanoid becomes quite fond of you until the
duration expires or until you or any of your companions
do anything harmful to it. The charmed creature regards
you as a potential romantic partner and seeks to attract
you in whatever manner is most appropriate to it. It might
tell you jokes or clown around, give you a (modest) gift,
flirt gently, flex its muscles and demonstrate its athletic
prowess, or compose a love poem to you. When the spell
ends, the creature knows it was charmed by you.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell
slot of 3rd level or higher, you can target one additional
creature for each slot level above 2nd. The creatures must
be within 30 feet of each other when you target them. If
two or more creatures fail their saving throws, they fall to
bickering between themselves over who is more worthy of
your affection.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: MOONLIGHT CHARM
Level: 5
School: Enchantment
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Up to 1 month
Description:
You attempt to charm a humanoid you can see within
range. It makes a Wisdom saving throw, with advantage if
you or your companions are fighting it or threatening it.
If the saving throw fails, the humanoid remains charmed
until the spell’s duration expires, until you or any of your
companions do anything harmful to it, or until a full moon
rises in the sky. The charmed creature regards you as a
friendly acquaintance. When the spell ends, the creature
knows it was charmed by you.
Raise Dead Variants
Raise dead is another spell with roots in the earliest days of
RPGs. The variants here are twisted, limited, or expanded
in several ways. They all return a creature to life but in
unexpected ways: as ghosts, for a short period, without
memories or skills, or under a particular compulsion.
Two aspects of raise dead are easy to change: the raised
creature’s appearance and the traumatic effect of returning
to life. The Raise Dead Random Effects table offers a
dozen options for reskinning raise dead in random ways.
When the spell is cast, roll a d12 or choose the option that
best suits the situation or the caster. This change need not
be a one-time thing; it can be emblematic of that caster, as
recognizably personal as a signature, a catchphrase, or a
coat of arms.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: RAISE GHOST
Level: 3
School: Necromancy
Casting Time: 1 hour
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (a diamond worth at least 500 gp,
Duration: Instantaneous
Description:
which the spell consumes)
You return a dead creature you touch to a ghostly and
incorporeal form, provided it has been dead no longer
than 10 days. The creature can see and hear, and it can
speak in a hollow, sepulchral tone if it chooses to. Whether
it’s willing to speak to you depends on its whim and its
prior relationship with you, if any.
The affected creature is not undead; it is alive but
incorporeal, with 1 hit point. It can’t interact with the
physical world, attack or cause damage, or cast spells. It
is immune to nonmagical damage. It can move through
creatures and objects as if they were difficult terrain, but it
takes 1d10 force damage if it ends its turn inside an object.
It regains hit points normally through resting or spending
hit dice but never recovers hit points via magic spells,
items, or potions.
This spell also neutralizes any poison and cures
nonmagical diseases that affected the creature at the time
it died. This spell doesn’t remove magical diseases, curses,
or similar effects; if these aren’t removed prior to casting
the spell, they take effect when the creature returns to life.
The spell also closes mortal wounds, but it doesn’t restore
missing body parts. If the creature is lacking body parts or
organs integral for its survival—its head, for instance—the
spell automatically fails.
Coming back from the dead is an ordeal. The target has a
−4 penalty to saving throws and ability checks. Every time
the target finishes a long rest, the penalty is reduced by 1
until it disappears.
A creature affected by raise ghost is restored to normal,
physical life by raise dead or comparable magic. Raise ghost
has no effect if cast on an undead creature.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: RAISE HERO
Level: 4
School: Necromancy
Casting Time: 1 hour
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (a diamond worth at least 500 gp,
Duration: 24 hours
Description:
which the spell consumes)
This spell is identical to raise dead in every way except
duration; the creature is restored to life for only 24 hours.
The spell can be recast on the same creature, but on the
second and subsequent castings, the caster must roll a
d20. If the roll equals or is less than the number of prior
castings on the same creature, the spell fails and cannot
affect that creature again. Each new casting resets the
clock to 24 hours; it doesn’t stack another 24 hours onto a
previous casting.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: RAISE SHADE
Level: 4
School: Necromancy
Casting Time: 1 hour
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (a diamond worth at least 500 gp,
Duration: Instantaneous
Description:
which the spell consumes)
This spell is identical to raise ghost in every way, except
the ghostly figure can manipulate, hold, or carry objects
weighing up to 5 pounds. Note that while 5 pounds of
force is enough to pick up many melee weapons, it’s not
sufficient to wield one in combat, or to draw a bow.
=== SPELL END ===

=== SPELL START ===
Name: RAISE NEMESIS
Level: 5
School: Necromancy
Casting Time: 1 hour
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (a diamond worth at least 500 gp,
Duration: Instantaneous
Description:
which the spell consumes)
This spell is identical to raise dead, except it simultaneously
raises two creatures with opposite alignments. For
example, if you raise a Lawful Good paladin, then
somewhere nearby, a Chaotic Evil warrior of similar
power also returns to life. The second corpse must be
within 100 miles. The two raised creatures have a vague
sense of the direction and distance to their nemesis. They
aren’t compelled to battle one another or even to seek each
D
1 Nimbus. The target is surrounded by a glow or halo equivalent to faerie fire.
2 Thundercrack. When raise dead is cast, the target’s return to life is heralded by a crack of thunder and a stroke of
lightning. These can be heard and seen for at least a mile and may be accompanied by a sudden, brief storm.
3 Neophyte. The raised creature forgets one language, one spell or feat, one friend, and one class ability. These
memories return in a random sequence at a rate of one per week until all are recovered.
4 Exhaustion. Restoring a soul is as debilitating on the caster as on the dead. The caster suffers the same penalty on
attack rolls, saving throws, and ability checks as the raised creature.
5 Voice of the Afterlife. The raised creature gained subconscious knowledge of a distant plane during its sojourn in the
realm of the dead. It now speaks either Abyssal, Celestial, Infernal, Satarre, or Umbral (player’s choice).
6 Breath of Life. The caster absorbs one magical disease, curse, or similar effect from the target creature into him- or
herself. The affliction ends on the newly-raised creature but takes full effect on the caster, who must get it cured or
removed by standard means.
7 Gravetouched. The raised creature has an uncanny voice or appearance that frightens nonhostile animals (including
mounts), children, and even adults unaccustomed to such things. Charisma (Intimidation) checks are made with
advantage.
8 Raging Spirit. The raised creature returns to life in the grip of intense and uncontrollable rage. It immediately
attacks the caster and anyone else nearby, including friends, acolytes, etc. This anger ends when the creature becomes
unconscious or when it’s affected by calm emotions or comparable magic.
9 Mild Spirit. The raised creature returns to life possessed of a gentle kindness. It refuses to fight, argue, or even
defend itself for a period of 1d6 + 1 days. This unnatural calm can be removed by a calm emotions spell. It also ends if the
creature is rendered unconscious by an attack.
10 Altered Spirit. The raised creature returns to life with a random alignment different from its previous one. This lasts
for 1d6 + 1 days. The creature’s alignment returns to normal if the creature is affected by a remove curse spell or if it’s
rendered unconscious by an attack.
11 Armor of the Planes. The raised creature gains resistance to necrotic, fire, cold, or lightning damage for seven days
(caster’s choice).
12 Servitor. The raised creature is charmed by the caster. While charmed in this way, the creature serves the caster loyally
as repayment for restoring him or her to life. The length of this service is determined by the caster’s spellcasting level:
up to level 11 = one week; level 12 to 14 = two weeks; level 15 or higher = one year. The effect is broken if the caster or
the caster’s companions cause direct harm to the charmed creature or its loved ones.
other out. Their lives are, however, inextricably bound
together in such a way that if either of them dies, the other
also drops dead instantly.
Evil NPCs brought back with raise nemesis typically see it
as an opportunity to create every sort of trouble imaginable.
If the spell is cast on a creature of true Neutral alignment,
only that creature is restored to life.
=== SPELL END ===
